          Statistical Account of Scotland.     xi

other periodical publications, various communica-
tions, specimens of which, merely as Boyish Com-
positions, I have thought it might not be improper 
to rescue from oblivion.  (See Appendix A).  But, 
above all, I preferred engaging in inquiries connec-
ted with political subjects, and collected, many 
years ago, very extensive materials, for works on 
questions of that nature, which, probably, I shall 
never have leisure to execute.  Fortunately, how-
ever, I found time sufficient, to sketch out the Hi-
story of the Public Revenue of the British Em-
pire*, (for the Work, as printed, is only a sketch), 
which, though it contains the essence of many hun-
dred publications, was executed in a very short -
period of time.  The first volume, I think, was -
both written and printed in the space of about -
six months, anno 1785, and the other, in about -
the same period of time, anno 1790.  The materi-
als, however, of both had been previously collec-
ted.  I have ever considered it, indeed, as the best 
mode of composition, to collect the materials for 
any work, as leisure would permit, and when they 
were collected, to dedicate a certain space of time, 
to that subject exclusively, and not to suffer any 
other matter to break in upon the proposed inve-
stigation.
   At the conclusion of the History of the Reve-
nue, it was my intention to have laid before the 
Public, a General View of the Political Circum-
                                        stances


  * This work is in three parts. The two first were printed in 1785, and 
the third in 1790.
