
     of Gargunnock.

On this account, it must be acknowledged, that the lands of
Leckie are far behind some other estates in the parish, with
respect to those elegant improvements, which usually distin-
guish the residence of men of fortune and taste.
   The present proprietor has already done much to remedy
this defect, and last year, more than double the usual num-
ber of labourers was employed.  The place is beginning to
assume a new aspect.  A garden is to be immediately formed,
in a field very favourable for soil and exposure; and when
the family make the house of Leckie their stated abode,
which it is expected will soon happen, there is every reason
to believe that rapid progress will be made in many other
useful and ornamental improvements.
   About a mile to the eastward of Leckie, the road from
Stirling to Dumbarton passes over a rising ground, and there
the dryfields of the barony of Gargunnock are viewed to ad-
vantage.  The spectator is charmed with the prospect.  The
cascades from the hills, the glens covered on each side, some
with natural wood, and others with regular plantations, the
village, the church and manse, the chimney tops of Gargun-
nock-house just discerned above the wood, the well dressed
fields, some for pasture, and others for crops of various kinds,
and all inclosed with dykes and hedges in excellent repair,
form altogether a very fine landscape.  The inclosures how-
ever, which are immediately under the hill, and have been
long in pasture, are over-run with furze and broom, which
are almost their only produce, when not cultivated for seve-
ral years.  Fields of this nature, it has been said by sheep-
farmers, are exceedingly useful in the winter, as the sheep
feed on furze.  But as fields in grass are superior in every
respect, the proprietor has begun to clear away this kind of
shrubbery.  Burning or rooting out furze and broom, does
not answer so well, as cutting them a little above the surface

     N 2


