
     of Craignish.

ple of the only staff which they have to lean to for subsist-
ence.  This was remarkably the case in the 1790.
   But the climate, though unfriendly to agriculture, is quite
salutary to the human species, and every other animal.  The
people enjoy good health.-Though no remarkable instances
of longevity have, for some time part, occurred among them,
they in general arrive at the ordinary period prescribed to
the human race; and some of them who are verging towards
80, possess an uncommon degree of bodily strength and men-
tal vigour.  Far removed from that intercourse which, while
it polishes the manners, corrupts the heart, and undermines
the constitution of man, it was their happiness to have led a
simple frugal life; and as they were strangers to those ex-
cesses to which luxury leads, they are now unacquainted with,
those distempers which it generates.  The fever, indeed, is
the greatest enemy they have to dread.  Some instances of a
dropty in the belly occurs; and, it is affirmed by the aged,
upon whose experience and observation in this case we must
rest, that this complaint is much more prevalent through the
whole country, than it was 50 or 60 years ago, and that it is
becoming more general.  Supposing this to be a fact it is not
easy to account for it.  The cause, however, which is com-
monly assigned, and which seems most obvious and plausible,
is the immoderate use of the potatoe root.-What quantity
of wholesome nourishment this plant is naturally qualified to
impart to the human frame cannot be determined; but it is
well known, from experience, to need the assistance of animal
food, or some other nourishing substance, in order to sup-
port the frame in any kind of vigour; and, if without this,
it can be supposed to have any tendency to contaminate the
animal juices, the above reason will appear more probable,
because the poor people live almost wholly on this root.-
Beef they cannot afford to eat, and they are almost equally


