
     Statistical Account of the

1786, when the Principal and professors of Marischal Col-
lege, in conjunction with some of those of King's College,
again projected a plan for uniting them into one, a measure
which they judged would have been very much for the ad-
vantage of both, and of the greatest service to the education
of youth over all the northern part of the kingdom.  They
also proposed to suppress a moiety o all those offices in
which each College had a professor; but in place of sharing
the salaries among the offices retained, they proposed em-
ploying them for the establishment of new professorships,
such as were wanting in both; and by admitting of no sine-
cure places, to render the united College a complete school
of education in law and medicine, as well as in all the other
sciences.  This scheme, having been first suggested by the
Earl of Bute, at that time chancellor of Marischal College,
was warmly patronized by many persons of rank, and com-
munities, who were applied to on the occasion; but after a
great deal of argument and discussion on both sides, was at
length frustrated by the opposition it met with from a majo-
rity of the members of King's College.

   Plan of Education.-How long the system of education ap-
pointed by the foundation charter continued to be observed,
is unknown; alterations in it were no doubt enjoined by va-
rious Commissions of visitation issued by Parliament; and
Aristotle at length resigned his empire to Bacon and New-
ton.  But although the professorship of Greek was fixed in
1700, it was not until about forty years ago, that the old
practice of one prosessor carrying forward the same class for
three years, and teaching the whole circle of the sciences, was
relinquished.  This appears the more extraordinary, when we
find that so early as the reign of King James VI. new foun-
dation charters, said to be composed by Buchanan, were gi-


