
				AYR.                      85

the other provincial towns nf Scotland. There are two material
amendments which it obviously admits of and requires. We would
recommend, first, a rigid and uncompromising revision of the whole
system of management of the poor. The amount of money an-
nually expended for their support, besides being beyond all due
bounds, as compared with other parishes, and entailing a heavy
burden on the community, is tending every year to the increase of
pauperism, and, what is worse, to injure materially the civil and
moral condition of those who are verging on this state. We would
suggest a scrupulous inquiry as to how far the numerous charities
and mortifications with which the town abounds, might be made
in some way available for the support of the poor, instead of being
entirely supplementary, as at present, to their parochial aliment.
Another beneficial change, that would add greatly to the prospe-
rity of Ayr, is the introduction, to a greater extent, of manufactures
and other public works. There is no want of capital, nor yet of
enterprise, for this purpose, and only a few examples of successful
speculation in this way are all that is required to stimulate their
practical application. The projected rail-road betwixt Ayr and
Glasgow will doubtlers give an ilpetus to trade and industrial
enterprise every way, and effect improvements of every kind be-
yond what it is possible at present to foresee or calculate.

	July 1837. Drawn up by the
        Rev. Alexander Cuthill, one of
           the Ministers of Ayr.



