
   Statistical Account

rain; then a great quantity of water is rolled down the
sides of the hills with prodigiou force; the banks are
overflown, and having no bridges, it is dangerous for
travellers to attempt to cross them either a-foot or on
horse-back, and often they cannot be crossed either way.
The incumbent has crossed them both a-foot and on
horse-back, often at a great risk, and has been stop by
them for 24 hours more than once, though within a few
miles of his own house.  There have been some persons
lost in these rivers, but none since the incumbent was
settled in the parish.  Besides these rivers, there is a
number of rivulets that swell in times of rain, and can-
not be crossed.  In times of rain also, a thousand streams
fall down the rocks of Burg, and the rocks of Inimore
and Carsaig.  Burg is a head land of Airdmeanach, fa-
cing the Atlantic to the W., and is several miles in cir-
cuit.  Inomore and Carsaig from a continue ridge of
5 or 6 miles in length, facing the S. channel.  These
rocks being in some places perpendicular, and in all
places nearly so, and some hundreds of feet in height,
the streams rushing from the tops to the bottoms form
very magnificent cascades; and if a high wind blow
against these streams, the water is raised up in columns
like smoke to the skies.

   Sea Coast.-In a parish of such extent, almost sur-
rounded by the sea, and indented by its arms, and to
which belong many small islands, besides the island of I
it is not exaggeration when the coast is computed to be
at least a hundred miles.  The shores may be called bold
and rocky throughout almost their whole extent.  Upon
the south side of the parish there is only one creek in
Ross, called Portuisgen, where a vessel of about 30 tons
may anchor, but not in safety if the weather be stormy.


