
     Statistical Account

ed and enlightened patriot, ANDREW FLETCHER.  They were
settled in Dundee as merchants, in the 16th century, and pos-
sessed of the lands of Inverpesser near Arbroath; distinguish-
ing themselves, during the course of the 17th century, as
magistrates of Dundee, and like their descendants, in vin-
dicating its liberties, against the arbitrary claims and en-
croachments of the family of Dudhope; and from these
ancestors, it is probable, that he embibed some portion of
his patriotic spirit.  He sprung from a second son of this
Dundee family, and his descendants are now its represen-
tatives, the elder branch having failed some years ago, by the
death of its last male, Major HENRY FLETCHER of the marines.
Another branch of it is the family of Balinshoe, which pro-
duced the two brothers, Sir ROBERT and Colonel FLETCHER,
lately distinguished in the East Indies.
   The present Lord LOUGHBOROUGH, chief justice of the com-
mon pleas in England, is also descended of a family long res-
pectable in Dundee.  The chiefs of it were successively town
clerks for near 200 years, and frequently the town's com-
missioners to the parliament.  In this situation they acquir-
ed the lands of Kingennie and Blackness, and were honoured
with the title of baronets.  This title is now carried by Sir
JOHN WEDDERBURN of Ballendean, a native of Dundee, and
male representative of the family.

   Advantages and Disadvantages.-The principal advantages
of Dundee are,-the noble river on which it is situated, open-
ing to the inhabitants, a ready communication, not only with
the London market, but with those of the principal and most
opulent countries of Europe; and also giving them a confider-
able extent of inland navigation:-The fertile countries in its
neighbourhood, the Carse of Gowrie especially, full of thriv-
ing, rich, and intelligent farmers; whose industry, if it was
first set in motion by the opulence of towns, and their increas-


