
     Statistical Account

for improvements, and these are carrying on with considerable
spirit in different parts.  Though there are no high hills in
the parish, there are many beautiful swells, which greatly di-
versify the appearance, and add much to the beauty of the
country.  On the banks of Clyde, at Westthorn, and in many
other places, the landscape is rich, various, and delightful.
The river winding through richly cultivated fields, and fre-
quently lost among the trees, which grow upon its banks;
interspersed with many gentlemen's houses, and the large and
populous city of Glasgow, with its numerous spires and ve-
nerable cathedral, present to the eye various striking views,
and fill the mind with the pleasing ideas of industry, wealth,
security, and happiness.

   Climate and Diseases.-The climate is temperate, the air
healthy, though rather most, when compared with the eastern
parts of Scotland, and many of the inhabitants live to an ad-
vanced age, though at present there are none above 90 years
old.  The diseases most prevalent are consumptions and fe-
vers; which last, for want of proper attention to cleanliness,
and a free circulation of fresh air, prove so infectious, as ge-
nerally to go through the whole family, and relapses are very
frequent.  The common people, however, are now beginning
to be more attentive than formerly to the cleanliness and ven-
tilation of their houses.  Indeed, from the increase of trade,
and of wealth among them, their houses, and the whole style
of their living is much improved within these few years.
This season the small-pox has been very frequent among the
children, and vast numbers have died.  Inoculation is yet far
from being generally practised, though the unreasonable pre-
judices entertained against it are gradually wearing off.  In
the villages, the great bulk of the inhabitants being employed
in manufactures, many of them are very subject to flatulency,


