
     Statistical Accout

a rich loam or clay, and part a light, black, or sandy
soil.

   Rent, Manufactures, etc.-The valued rent is L. 3044,
17 s. 4 d. Scotch; and the real rent may be estimated at about
L. 1200 Sterling, though this must depend on the price of 
grain.  There is only one residing heritor, who possesses
two-thirds of the property; the remaining third belongs to
the only other heritor.  It is a great misfortune that no
manufactures have been established here, as scarcely any
part of Scotland is better adapted for them.  The women
spin linen-yarn; by which, with the greatest application,
they can only earn from 2 d. to 3 d. a-day; and even this
yarn, except what is necessary for our own consumption, is
exported (unwrought) to Edinburgh, Glasgow, or the N.
of England.  The 2 hills, mentioned above, abound with ex-
cellent quarries of white and yellow free-stone, which is
not to be found any where elase in the Moray frith.  About
20 masons, including apprentices, and nearly double that
number of labourers, are constantly employed in quarrying
and dressing stones, to supply the demand for that article
from this and the neighbouring countries.

   Village of Lossumouth, Imports and Exports.-The princi-
pal village here is Lossiermouth, a sea-port belonging to
the town of Elgin.  It contains from 150 to 200 inhabi-
tants.  There are no vessels belonging to the place, except
1 sloop and 2 fishing-boats.  But during the last year 49
vessel, from 55 to 60 tons burden, at an average, entered
this harbour.  The imports and exports were as follow:

<TABLE>

IMPORTS.  English coals,                 20 vessels.
          Scotch coals,                   6 
          London goods,                  10
                                        -----
                      Carried forward,   36

</TABLE>


