
     Statistical Account

lands of Scotland, evinces the bad tendency of domestic in-
oculation."
   "The previous preparation necessary to inoculation, in
most cases, evinces the bad tendency of domestic inocula-
tion."
   "In justice to the more ignorant of my countryment, me-
dical people have their own predecessors to blame, for the
propensity most people in the Highlands hold, to hot treat-
ment in the small-pox; it was strongly inculcated by old
physicians, and, no doubt, the new treatment, cannot for a
time be generally received."
   "Should this brief account of inoculation, in the course of
eight months, be deemed any acquisition to the Statistical
Account of this town and neighbourhood, I beg what may
be considered interesting, with the view to prevent an un-
fortunate decrease of population by the epidemic small-pox,
may be extracted as may seem most useful.  I am so much
engaged in business, that my time has not permitted that at-
tention to the account which may perhaps be necessary.
My observations rest on practice, and the following rules, if
received, and sanctioned by medical authority of longer ex-
perience than mine, may tend to promote general inocula-
tion."
   "1.  That whenever the epidemic prevails, inoculation
should immediately be performed, on those not yet affected."
   "2.  That every one of influence, more especially the
clergy, ought, as good members of society, to advise general
inoculation."
   "3.  That all seasons, in Britain, may be adapted to ino-
culation."
   "4.  That healthy children, past four days of age, may be
safely inoculated."
   "5.  That domestic inoculation, must, in general, be dan-
gerous."


