
     Statistical Account

6 to 20 feet below the surface of the bank; and in all direc-
tions, some lying horizontally, others standing almost upright.
The river contains both pike and perch.  In former times,
salmon used to come up in abundance, but since the mosses
began to be cleared away, they have not been taken in any
considerable quantity.  There are two bridges over the Forth
in this parish; one near Cardross built in 1772, the other at
Frew, built in 1783; both at present are in good repair.

   Natural Curiosities.-"The burn of Boquhan, which, de-
"scending from the rock of Ballochleam, makes little im-
"pression on the strata of lime-stone or iron, meets at last
"with the red sand-stone, through which it has opened a
"passage, and wrought its sort materials into a number of
"curious shapes, such as the wells and caldrons of the De-
"von.  It is yet remembered, when it burst through a large
"projection of the rock, and threw the mill with all its ap-
"pendages, on the other side of the bank*."-In the garden
of Broich, there is a yew tree, of a regular conical form,
whose branches shooting regularly from the trunk, with their
extremities falling down to the ground, exhibits the appear-
ance of a large umbrella to those who stand under its shade.
The circumference of the trunk about 2 feet above the ground,
is 10 feet; height of the trunk to the 1owest row of branches,
9 feet; height of the tree, about 50 feet; circumference of
the circle overspread by the lower branches, 140 feet.  It is
supposed to be 200 or 300 years old; and though it may not
vie with the yew of Fortingal, must still be allowed to be a
beautiful object.

   Antiquities and History.-The names and situations of seve-
ral places in the parish, plainly shew that in former times, they

<FOOTNOTE>

*Gen. Campbell's notes, page 18.


