
     Of Linlithgow.

To that circumstance, concurring with the elevated situa-
tion of the grounds, which form two ridges on the N. and
S., thus producing a current of fresh air in the direction
of E. and W., may probably be ascribed the good health
which the inhabitants in general enjoy, and the longevity
many of them are found to attain.  This place is distin-
guished by a variety of objects, which cannot fail to im-
press an attentive observers, and give him a striking idea
of its ancient grandeur.  Among these, are chiefly to be
remarked, the magnificent ruins of its palace; the vener-
able fabrick destined for religious worship, and situated
so near the others, as to form almost a part of it; the
grand terrace on which both are erected; the beautiful
lake on the N., which covers an extent of 80 acres; the
lofty trees, which seem coeval with the sacred and royal
piles they adorn on the E.; and the beautiful plantations
interspersed with pasture ground.  Few places, indeed,
would afford a finer subject for the pencil.  Even the old
houses have their effect on a contemplative mind.  As
many of these, during the Royal residence at Linlithgow,
belonged to persons of the first rank, they mark the sim-
plicity of former times, contracted with the luxury of the
present; and by their decayed conditions, show the natural
tendency of all human things.
   The river Avon bounds the parish on the W., and di-
vides this county from that of Stirling.  Its course must
have altered near the bridge, as a house and field, now on
the opposite side, belong to the parish and shire of Lin-
lithgow.  The mean extent of the parish from E. to W.,
is 5 miles; from N. to S. 3.  It is supposed to contain
7600 Scotch acres.  The average rent of the whole parish
may be estimated at 18 s. 4 d. the acre.

   Soil, Cultivication, an Produce.-The S. part of the pa-

     4


