
     Statistical Account

paper-mill, which employs 8, and a bleach-field, which employs
7.  It was not so formerly.  In the beginning of this century,
the art of manufacturing pot barley, and of weaving hollands,
was introduced into this parish, and exclusively practiced to
the great emolument of the inhabitants, who, for several years,
supplied the whole of Scotland with these important articles.
These arts owe their introduction to the patriotism of the Lady
of Henry Fletcher of Salton.  Animated with a desire of in-
creasing the manufactorie of her country, this lady travelled
to Holland with two expert mechanics, in the habit of ser-
vants.  Her rank procured her easy access, together with her sup-
posed domestics, to the manufactories; and by frequent visits,
the secrets of operation were discovered; models of the vari-
ous works were formed by the disguised artists; and the parish
became possessed of two discoveries, which were a wonderful
saving to the nation.  In the year 1750, too, the first bleach-
field, belonging to the British Linen Company, was formed in
this place, under the patronage of the famous Lord Milton.
During his Lordship's life, it was conducted with much spirit;
no expence was spared in procuring from Ireland, the most
expert work-men, and it became at last so very flourishing,
as to afford employment to upwards of 100 persons.  But sta-
bility is the character of none of the works of men; the
bleach-field has for many years been converted into delight-
ful pleasure ground, inhabited by beings very different from
those that are to be found in a fuller's field.

   Minerals.-A stratum of limestone rock pervades almost
the whole parish.  It is of an excellent quality, and has been
wrought from a very remote period, both for the purposes of
agriculture and of building.  As it abounds in most of the
farms, the sale of it was formerly of considerable emolument
to the respective tenants.  This privilege, however, has of late


