
     Statistical Account

not of one farm only, but of a whole parish.  But cer-
tainly it would be more useful to endeavour to reduce
them to such simplicity of form, and lowness of price, as
would bring them within the reach of those farmers of 
moderate capital, who compose the great body of that
prosession.  Hence, every model of those machines, which
can be constructed at a small expense, merits the publick
attention; so that by comparing the different forms, ex-
perience may be able to ascertain, which is, upon the
whole, the most eligible.

   On the river South Esk, which bounds the parish on
the S. and S. E., there are some good stations for erect-
ing machinery, and particularly one thought to be ex-
tremely commodious for a paper mill.  In some future 
period of more advanced industry, those stations may
prove the more valuable, that the whole parish is said to
be a field of coal of different strata, one of which is of
very superior quality, and another of the thickness of 11
feet.  It has also been thought by some, that the adja-
cent grounds exhibit strong appearances of iron stone.
Upon the banks of this river also, which are now over-
run and deformed with furze and broom, trees would 
shoot with luxuriance, shade and beautify the country,
and amply reward the planter's toil.  But all those natu-
ral advantages remain neglected.  To whatever quarter
of the globe we turn our thoughts, similar, but more 
striking, objects to regret meet our observation.  The
earth, which industry might have turned into a fruitful
garden, remains, for the most part, a waste and barren
wilderness.  How numerous and extensive are the Sa-
vannahs, on which the ploughshare and the sickle never
gleamed!  How tall and majestic are the forests, in which
the found of the hatchet never echoed!  Upon many of


