
     Statistical Account

rich, and green pasture, no doubt ought to remain that the
stocking these hills with sheep, are, in every respect, not only
not prejudicial, but highly beneficial, to our country,
   The great and chief cause of the frequent and numerous
emigrations from the highlands to America, is the natural
sterility of the soil which does not furnish the means of
subsistence proportioned to the increasing population and
number of inhabitants; and, therefore, when they cannot
procure employment in their native country, they are of ne-
cessity obliged to search for it in distant and more fertile
climes; and as America, from common report, true or false,
promises the best and readiest supply of their more imme-
diate wants, the rage of emigration to that quarter part of
the globe, has prevailed much of late years.  If the High-
lander could find employment and the means of comfortable,
or even bare, subsistence at home, and his wants are not nu-
merous) such is his attachment to the natale solum, that he
would never think of banishing himself for ever from his
country in order to better his condition.  It is no doubt
true, that the ill-judged and unfeeling oppression of some
landlords in the Highlands of Scotland in raising the rent of
their lands beyond what the tenants can bear or pay, and in
exacting of them personal services so grievous; that they can-
not attend to the proper management of their own posses-
sions, has been a productive cause of emigration to America.
The disadvantages are numerous.  A rainy stormy climate;
autumn floods and equinoctial storms, which often frustrate
the labours of the industrious farmer; and what is a greater
discouragement, he who raises the best and most luxuriant
crop, is sure to suffer most from the climate by lodging and
shaking.  Only early and green crops can be cultivated to
any advantage in such a climate.  It is no unwarrantable af-
fertion that the best and richest land upon the west coast


