
     of Cardross.

   Manure.-There is plenty of lime-stone on the lands of
Camis-Eskan, the property of the family Colgrain: Large
quantities are regularly burnt, with which the neighbourhood
is supplied.  The expence of burning is considerable, as the
coal is brought by water from Glasgow, at the rate of be-
tween 5 s. and 6 s. the 12 cwt.  On the shore there is a good
deal of sea ware driven in, during the winter and spring,
which is carefully collected, and when laid upon lee ground
proves an excellent manure.  Besides this, which is called
blown ware, large quantities of it are cut every third year.
This, adhering to the stones and rocks within water-mark,
grows in three years to a considerable length, and contains a
greater abundance of those salts and juices which promote
vegetation.  As Cardross lies opposite to Port-Glasgow and
Greenock, and as the Frith is only from 2 to 4 miles in
breadth, there is an easy access by water to these towns.  In
consequence of this, it has become an object of great impor-
tance to the farmer to import from them street dung; and,
although this is done at great expence, each full cart, includ-
ing every charge, amounting at least to 2 s. Sterling, yet the
returns amply compensate the whole trouble and outlay.

   Draining, etc.-Few of the farmers in this parish are pos-
sessed of a capital, sufficient for carrying on extensive im-
provements.  They with difficulty stock their farms, which
are rented in general from 20 l. to 50 l. Sterling.  They em-
brace the readiest methods in their power, of raising articles
to pay their rents, and cannot afford to wait those distant,
though sure returns, with which the improving farmer must
lay his account.  Before this parish can be improved, a large
capital must be employed in draining.  The climate, like that
of every other parish near the mouth of the Clyde, is wet.
In consequence of the heavy, and almost incessant rains,


