
654                          LANARKSHIRE.

   These districts include only 8862 of the inhabitants.  The de-
tails of the remaming districts have unfortunately not been put
into the writer's possession; but the whole population, as taken up
in 1837, was 11,577, which, compared with the population of 1831,
which was 9580, is an increase, in five years, of 1997, or at the
rate of 399 per annum, or rather upwards.  At the same rate the
national census in 1841 will probably return at least 13,580, or
probably more.  It is, in fact, almost impossible at present to cal-
culate, upon any rational data, the ratio of increase.  Since last,
general census in 1831, and since 1837, the population has in-
creased vastly.  When the census was taken for the Church Com-
mission in 1837, the houses, with their inhabitants, which had been
erected and inhabited since 1831, were nearly as follows.  But it
must be premised, that the increase of house, or rather of entire
villages, since 1837, has been very great.

<TABLE>

 1. Houses on the south of Garnkirk Railway, a little west of      Inhabitants.
     Gartsherrie Inn,    -        -       -       -       -        -    30
 2. Witch-tree cottage,       -               -       -        -        13
 3. Cross-roads,   -              -       -       -       -        -    24
 4. Two new rows near Gartsherrie Works,      -       -        -       200
 5. New houses near Crosshill,  -      -         -       -       -     131
 6. New houses Coatdyke,
 7. Locks-road new houses,     -      -         -       -        -      47
 8. Houses near old quarry opposite Laigh Coats,   -      -        -    20
 9. Cairnhill bridge new houses,          -       -     -         -     45
10. Calder bridge new row,
11. Summerlee new houses,          -       -       -     -         -   150
                                                                      _____
                                                                       660

   These were erected previous to 1837; and since that period
erections have been taking place for the accommodation of the in-
habitants on a much more extensive scale.  The increase of the
population in this parish is almost entirely owing to the coal and
iron trade.  There is no certain method of ascertaining the mar-
riages, baptisms, and deaths, for the last seven years, as the pa-
rish within that period has been divided, quoad spiritualia, into
three parishes, viz. the Old Parish, and the parishes of Crosshil
and Gartsherrie.  The proclamations for the following years and
in each month of the respective years in the parish church were as
follow:

<TABLE>
             1802    1828    1834    1835    1836    1837    1838
January,      10       5       7      12      12      13       9
February,      4      10       6      12       5       7      12
March,         3       6      10      15       9      13       7
April,        10      10       9       9       6      13       7
May,           7       9       6      17      21      20      11
June,          4      12      12      11      14       7      11
July,          7       4       7       6      16       7       6


