
     of Tain.

and in some two.  On this sand, during the spring and part
of summer, there are found quantities of muscles, which the
people gather and make use of.  About the middle of the
Frith, 2 miles above the Gizzen Briggs, there is a small
bank, the property of the burgh, richly covered with this
species of shell fish.  Not only do the inhabitants here find
a plentiful supply, but also many boats, perhaps 50 or 60 in
a season, are loaded for other places.  It is remarkable,
through cockles be not usually found on this bank, that, in
1783, when there was great scarcity of bread, it afforded, in
April, May, and June, immense quantities of them, of an
excellent quality, which contributed to the support of mul-
titudes, not only in this parish, but in the neighbourhood.
The water has, of late years, made some small encroachments
on the land below the town; but, in a plain to the eastward,
there are more alarming enchroachments made, and yearly
making, by sand blowing.  Many acres of pasture and arable
ground have been thus covered within the last 10 years; and,
where some old people remember dwelling houses and grow-
ing corn, nothing is now to be seen but sand banks.

   Population, etc.-There is no access now to know parti-
cularly the ancient state of the population of the parish.
There are no registers extant farther back than the begin-
ning of the present century. In 1775, the return to Dr
Webster was 1870 souls.  The number of catechizable per-
sons, counting from 6 years old, is 1800, of which a list is
annually taken.  Children under 6 years are left out, but it
is supported there may be of such 300; consequently the to-
tal population is about 2100 souls, and the increase, since
1755, about 230.  The average of births, for the last 10
years is 70.  The variation is very small, taking any 10 years
of the century.  The lowest number, during this century, is


