
     Statistical Account

of lime-stone.  In these beds the shells of the commong snail
are observed rotten and friable.  A blue marle, of a mixed
consistency between stone and clay, is found in a stramm
about two feet thick, above the lime rocks of Carlops and
Spittlehaugh.  No whin-stone has been discovered, except
detached stones in the bed of the river.

   There is a spring lying north of Linton village about a
mile, in Mr Chatto's land, called Heaven-aqua Well, some-
what resembling Tunbridge.

   Animals, etc.-Besides the domestic animals, and those
common to the country, the earn eagle is sometimes, but rare-
ly, seen on the heights.  The golden crested wren and the 
bullfinch are but lately come.  The woodpecker has very
lately appeared at Newhall on the North Esk, where, pro-
bably, we shall soon have the brown squirrel, which has ar-
rived already at Pennycook, from the Duke of Buccleigh's
menagerie.  In winter, the huppoe, and some unknown birds,
sometimes visit us.  Our migrating birds are the swallows,
green plover, curlew, sand lark, a small wader frequenting
running water, and the red-shank, and other two larger wa-
ders frequenting Iochs; also the corn-craik and cuckoo; these
appear in spring and leave us after midsummer.  The felt-
fare and wild goose appear in winter; the woodcock comes 
in September or October, and soon leaves us.

   Plantations and Woods, etc.-Any large plantations of trees
in the parish are as yet only in their infancy.  The larix
seems to thrive in the poorest soils and most exposed situa-
tions.  Their durability in paling posts, even when cut young,
is well known.  The natural wood is hazel, birch, mountain-
ash, and willows.  Birch is generally found in the mosses. 


