
     Statistical Account

<TABLE>

Annual average of births,       150
               of marriages,     18

</TABLE>

   State of the Poor.-There is a great number of poor in this
parish.  There are 30 on the roll, that are served quarterly
out of the public charity, which is but a small pittance to
each, there being no fund or provision made for their support,
but what is collected in the church.  Those that are able are
allowed to beg from door to door; and many strollers and
idle vagrants are suffered to travel in the country, with which
it is greatly oppressed, and by this means the poor of the pa-
rish are robbed of that charity which properly belongs to
them.

   School.-There is a legal school in the parish, of 200 merks
of salary.  James Richardson of Reading, in England, mor-
tified, on the 26th of March 1726, the sum of 400 L. Ster-
ling, in the following manner, viz. 200 L. to the grammar
school of Lochmaben; the interest of it to be paid to the
master, under the obligation of teaching 10 poor scholars, of
the parish of Lochmaben, English, Latin, writing, and a-
rithmetic, gratis:  Another 100 L. for supporting a library,
and keeping in repair a good house, built by the said Mr Ri-
chardson, for the use of the schoolmaster, and for preserving,
supplying, and continuing the said library:  And the inte-
rest of the last 100 L. to go for a school in Hightae, for the
benefit of the whole Four Towns.

