
     Statistical Account

week about 4000 yard, the profit arising from which is L. 35.
A stamp-office was established here several years ago.  In the
year 1788, 147,024 yards of cloth were stamped at this of-
fice; in 1789, 150,174 yards; and in 1790, 136, 998 yards.
The linen manufactured here is of a superior quality, and
used chiefly for buckram, hat linings, etc.

   Poor.-In a corner of the country where a spirit of indus-
try pervades every rank, there must be, in proportion, few
objects of charity.  At present, there are from fix to eight
on the poor's list; and the necessities of these are relieved
according to the judgment and discretion of the members of
session.  About 50 years ago, the monthly collections for the 
poor were 7 s. 9 d.; 30 years ago, they amounted to 14 s.;
and are now L. 1: 10: 0.  In the year 1782, the sums re-
ceive, and those distributed in charity, were nearly equal.
The public fund is considerable, and adequate to any exi-
gence.

   The principal disadvantage under which this parish and
the neighbourhood labour, is their great distance from pro-
per fuel.  The lower class are indifferently supplied with
peat or turf from mosses in the vicinity; and the rest with
coal from Dundee.  The expence of the carriage of coal is
nearly equal to the original price:  But this disadvantage
might, in a great measure, be removed by a navigable ca-
nal.

   Canal.-About 30 years ago, a merchant in this corner, a
man of uncommon sagacity and enterprise, apprehending the
utility of a canal through Strathmore, found means to pro-
cure a survey of its course from Perth towards Forfar, to-
gether with an estimate of the expence:  But the plan he had


