
     Statistical Account

<TABLE>

The number of persons, under 10 years of age, at present is,
                                                         102
                             from 10 to 20                99
                             from 20 to 50               161
                             from 50 to 70                52
                             above 70   13
                                             Total,      427

</TABLE>

   There are three or four persons about 81 or 82 years of
age, but none older.  By a list, accurately taken in the be-
ginning of January 1791, it appears, that there are in the
parish at present 427 persons, old and young, of which num-
ber 206 are males, and 221 females.  They reside chiefly in
two scattered villages, in the parish there are 140 commu-
nicants belonging to the established Church; 54 to the Re-
lief; 32 to the Antiburghers, and 28 to the Burgher meet-
ing house, but no Episcopalians nor Roman Catholics; 26
bachelors, and 69 married men and widowers; 15 handy-
craftsmen; about 130 household servants; 11 labouring ser-
vants, or days wage men; and one student at the university;
12 farmers, each having a plough of land; and 16 smaller
tenants, each having a piece of ground, one horse, and some
cows.  There are 106 inhabited houses, which gives 4 per-
sons at an average to each.  Large farms, and laying down a
great deal of corn lands in grass; the manufactories in the
neighbourhood, such as cotton mills, iron works, etc. and
the extensive buildings carrying on at Edinburgh and
Glasgow, are great drains for servants here, and peculiar
causes of depopulation.  The consequence of this is, that
servants are become exceedingly scarce, and their wages very
high.  To remedy this, it will be necessary for gentlemen
and tenants to encourage their servants to marry, by giving
them a comfortable house, a cow's grass, etc.


