
     Statistical Account

seasons.  The aquatic birds are, the duck, teal, widgeon,
cormorant, heron, and sea-gull.

   Wild Beasts.-The red deer, once a native of this country,
is not now to be seen; but the roes have not yet altogether
forsaken their old haunts.  Hares are in great abundance.
Foxes were formerly very numerous; but since the land has
been chiefly stocked with sheep, the distruction of these
animals has become an object of great attention.  For this
purpose, two, three, or more parishes, according to their ex-
tent, join in supporting a fox-hunter, and a pack of dogs.
The fox-hunter receives a fixed salary; he is continually per-
ambulating the country, and lives upon his employers' every
tacksman and tenant being obliged to entertain him and his
dogs, a specified number of nights in the year, accord-
ing to the extent of land which he possesses.  In conse-
quence of this establishment, a fox is seldom seen.  Wild
cats are more numerous than foxes, and are also very des-
tructive to lambs; they lodge in the crevices of rocks, and
in deep and narrow holes, in the face of dreadful precipices,
where it is exceedingly difficult to get near them.  Martins
are not so frequent as they have been, but there are still a
few of them in the country; and also polecats and weasels.

   Black Cattle and Horses.-There are 180 horses are par-
rish, and 2120 head of black cattle.  The horses are partly
reared in the parish, and partly brought from the westward.
They are, in general, neither handsome, nor large; but they
are hardy, active, laborious, and easily fed.  The black
cattle are small, but, like those of Argyleshire in ge-
neral, they are very handsome, well haired, well limbed, and 
weigh well for their bulk.  The stots, or bullocks, are
brought annually to Crieff, or Falkirk, and sold in these


