
     Statistical Account

between sixteen and sixty years of age, to work upon the
roads, three days before and three days after harvest annual-
ly, in the respective parishes, by overseers named by them for
that purpose, under a penalty of 1 s. 6 d. for every person
deficient, and to report their diligence at next general meet-
ing at Aberdeen.  The happy effects of this regulation have
been general over the county.  The roads have been repaired,
and now not only farmers, but even crosters perform their la-
bour with carts, to their great accommodation and advantage.
Turnpikes are immediately to be erected on the most public
roads in the county, and it is to be hoped, that as improve-
ments go on and trade increases, they will become general, to
the great advantage of the community.

   Produce.-No wheat is sown in this district, and there
seems to be an inaptitude in the soil for pease and beans.  On
Dee side, which is generally a poor soil, pease grow without
dung, but here they will hardly thrive on the best land with-
out lime, which makes them so hard that boiling scarcely
softens them; they are rarely sown, therefore, in the field.
The common crops are bear, oats, potatoes, and turnips the
last but just introduced, and which scarcely can become ge-
neral until the fields are inclosed.  For want of inclosures,
those farmers who sow turnips are obliged to dig pits for
them, and close them on the top with the earth, to save them
from the cattle and sheep in autumn, but this is a great loss,
as the turnips usually grow till Christmas.  They are some-
times sown in drills, at the distance of three feet between the
rows, for the sake of horse hoeing; but broad-cast sowing be-
gins to be preferred as producing a larger crop.  Flax is on-
ly sown by some few families to make linen for their own
use.  Bear and oats with some rye are the chief crops here;
but the husbandry hitherto has been but very indifferent.


