
     No. 32.] The Statistical Account.

     ADDITIONS TO VOLUME X.

     No. XXXII. Page 461.

     Parish of Lochbroom.

Additional Communications, from the Rev. Roderick M'Rae.

   That the Highlands may be improved in several respects,
appears evident upon a little reflection.  They may be im-
proved in agriculture, in manufactures, and in fisheries.
But, as a necessary preliminary to these improvements, the
making of proper roads and bridges, so as to open an easy
communication betwixt the Highlands and Lowlands, and
from one part of the Highlands to another, is an object
which merits the attention of the legislature.  With this
view, the roads leading to Pollew and Lochcarron, as they
are the channels of conveyance to the west coast and He-
brides, ought to be formed upon the same plan with the
Lochbroom road, where carts and horses can now travel with
the greatest ease and expedition, either by night or by day.
These other roads are by no means less worthy of notice.
After paving the way thus far for improvements; in order to
encourage agricultural exertions, landholders ought to give
their tenants longer leases than usual, suppose twenty years
or upwards.  Nothing discourages a tenant more than a short
lease.  In this case, he reasons with himself, that too great
exertions in improving his farm might be a mean to augment
his rents, before he tastes the fruit of his labours, or to

     VOL. XXI. G g


