
     Statistical Account

   These lines are at once philosophical, poetical, and ex-
pressive, and worthy of his Lordship; and the works of this
honourable Judge on the banks of Teith, are a noble monu-
ment of a bright understanding, a benevolent heart, and an
angelic mind.

                     Him for the studious shade
     Kind nature form'd, deep, comprehensive, clear,
     Exact, and elegant; who, from the gloom
     Of cloister'd monks, and jargon-teaching schools,
     Led forth the true philosophy
                                              THOMSON.

   The river Teith abounds with excellent trout and sal-
mon, which are caught chiefly by the rod and hook.  There
is a cruive erected below Doune castle, where great num-
bers of salmon are caught; but, owing to the expence of
keeping up dam-heads on this rapid river, which, in rainy
seasons, sweeps every thing before it, there is no other
cruive of consequence: though, when manufactures increase,
and water machinery is erected on this river, cruives will
become common; and thus multitudes of fishes be taken all
the way towards Loch Ludnich.
   Besides the fishing of the Teith, Lochmaghaig abounds
with pikes and perches; but no trout or salmon.  The pike
and perch in this lake are very large, and, when properly
dressed, afford tolerable good food; but, for want of boats,
few are caught.
   There are a number of small rivers, or burns, that run
from the north into Teith, which are excellent for all kinds
of water machinery, and afford very fine trout-fishing, espe-
cially after rain.
   The largest is Ardoch, which rises from Lochmaghaig,
and is joined by the burn of Garwell, (a small rivulet that
rises on the east side of Uaighmor), and, after running


