
     Statistical Account

   There are 2 four-wheeled chaises and a hearse in tile
parish.
   About 900 acres have been planted in this parish, most-
ly with Scotch firs at first, and afterwards filled up with a
variety of other trees, of which Mr Ferguson's plantations
amount to about 650 acres.  Pines and larches have in ge-
neral thriven better than the Scotch fir.  Larches, indeed,
have succeeded on northerly exposures, where every other
kind of wood, which was tried, had failed.  Of hard wood,
beech, ash, birch, oak, and plane trees, have come to consi-
derable size.  Hedge-rows to a great extent have in many
places been planted round inclosures, along with stone and
turf fences.
   There is plenty of game in this parish, as grouse, par-
tridges, woodcocks, snipes, and hares; besides wild pigeons,
wild ducks, teals, herns, and occasionally wild geese and
swans; there are also hawks, owls, and great numbers of
crows, (which are very destructive), and singing birds, as
the thrush, blackbird, linnet, goldfinch, etc.  Foxes infest
this place, together with badgers, otters, polecats, wea-
sels, etc.
   The streams here abound with salmon, and excellent
trout of different kinds, and angling is a favourite diver-
sion.
   Seed-time is from the middle of March to the end of
April.  Harvest commences about the beginning of Sep-
tember, and commonly lasts fix weeks.  In the year 1782,
the crop in this parish was supposed to fall short about one
half of the usual produce.  Twelve hundred bolls of bear-
meal and pease were imported, mostly by residing heritors.
The tenants, however, got the better of this stroke by an
extraordinary crop in 1784, which, with the rise of cattle,
brought this country to a pitch of prosperity, which it pro-
bably never before enjoyed.


