
     of Paisley.

strangers are apt to consider it as, next to Edinburgh and
Glasgow, the largest and most populous town in Scotland.
Its buildings of late years have been greatly improved; its
streets are well paved; and the different parts of the town
and suburbs, where the river intervenes, are connected with
one another by three bridges at convenient distances.

   Trade and Manufactures.-The trade and manufactures of
Paisley, which have always chiefly been in the weaving
branch, are the main articles which render it of importance
in a history of this nature.  These may be traced from very
small beginnings; but their progress in some periods has
been rapid and astonishing.  Not long after the Union, when
a free trade was opened with England, the spirit of manufac-
ture began to show itself there; and the fabrics which were
produced were made upon such just and oeconomical princi-
ples, and with so much taste and judgment, that they found
a ready market not only at home, but likewise in the neigh-
bouring kingdom.  But the trade of Paisley, in that period.
owed its chief encouragement to a let of men who were of
great benefit to this country, though they are now discou-
renanced, and laid under fevere restrictions by government;
I mean, the pedlars or travelling merchants in England,
many of whom having frequented Paisley as their stpale,
and having gained a little money by their trade, came to
settle in that town, and bought up large quantities of its
manufactures, which they vended among their friends and
correspondents in England.  Afterwards the merchants in
Glasgow found their account in purchasing these goods, and
fending them both to the London market and to foreign
parts.  Such was the state of the trade and manufactures of
Paisley from soon after the Union till about the year 1760.
The different articles of which they consisted, during that


