
     Statistical Account

the parish, nearly in a direction from N.E. to S.W.  Their
actual meeting may be seen at the bottom of some of the
glens, but still better in a rock washed by the sea at a place
called Sickar Point, where the strata of sandstone lie hori-
zontally on the broken edges of the schistus, whose beds
are at that particular spot nearly in a vertical position; a
scene highly interesting to those who attend to the minera-
logical history of the globe.  Several thick beds of gravel
lie upon the sandstone of the lower division, composed of
rounded pieces of schistus, whinstone, porphyry, granite, and
sometimes limestone; all of which it is probable have been
carried into their present position by some great revolution
of the globe, since none of them, except the schistus, occur
in this parish, in their native place.  On the upper side,
towards the hills, these beds consist of small stones inter-
mixed with sand, and are loose and detached; upon the shore
the stones are large, and bedded in clay.  It is probably
owing to this circumstance that the soil near the sea is a
strong clay, and that farther up is light, and sometimes
gravelly.-The shore is high, consisting of a set of cliffs
about 100 feet above the level of the sea; they are formed
either of sandstone, or of the beds of clay, mixed with large
stones mentioned above; they are in some places rocky
and perpendicular, in others sloping rapidly, but covered
with grass, affording sweet pasture for sheep.  Behind the
cliffs the country rises gently towards the hills in a waving
form, and is intersected by many deep ravines, whose sides
are sometimes sloping and covered with grass, but are in
general rocky, and finely wooded; in each a little brook
flows.  This mixture of rocks, woods, pasture, and cultiva-
tion, produces much picturesque scenery, both lively and
romantic.  Owing, however, to the want of hedge-rows, or
old enclosures, and to the low situation of the woods, the


