
     Statistical Account

   I have heard it sometimes asserted, and never denied,
that the river Dee appeals as large, and contains as much
water at Kincardine, as here, or at the bridge of Dee, a
course of 24 miles, in which it receives considerable addi-
tions.  This observation must suppose, that the river is as
rapid at Kincardine as it is here, or at the bridge of Dee;
and then it remains to be considered, on what principle the
fact is to be explained.  Say some, on the principle of evapo-
ration.  But it is well known, that in the same climate,
the quantity of water evaporated in the same time, is in
proportion to the surface exposed; and therefore the same
cause would produce the same effect in other rivers.  As
the Dee runs upon a gravelly and sandy bottom, it is pro-
bable that some of the water sinks, and finds a subterrane-
ous passage.
   At certain seasons, when the river is in a proper state,
several rafts are floated down.  The rafts are formed about
7 or 8 miles above this.  Farther up, single trees only can
be floated down the river, because of the rocks, shallows,
cataracts, etc. which occur.
   It has been observed by others, that the river Dee fre-
quently overflows the contiguous flats.  In autumn 1789,
the Haugh of Murtle, measuring 26 Scots acres, was cover-
ed with a deep current, and the whole crop, computed at
more than 150 bolls of oats, was carried away by the river,
the first night after it was cut down.  The crop of this
Haugh is often exposed to a similar fate.  Some years ago,
the late Mr Burnett of Countesswells, and Captain Hen-
derson of Newton raised an embankment, at their joint
expence, across the head of a Haugh, with a view to secure
their flats below.  This work has been useful, but has not
prevented the ravages of an high inundation.  In the year
1790, not only a part of the crop of the Haugh of Murtle
was carried downs but also the crop of the Haugh of Cults,


