
     Statistical Account

according to tradition, those who took asylum in the
consecrated ground, were lodged.  At present, however,
there are but two churches, or rather houses for wor-
ship; one at Kilninian, and one at Kilmore, at the dis-
tance of about 4 computed, or 6 measured miles from
each other, with a hill intervening, and 2 torrents of wa-
ter, not always fordable.  Both these churches were built
in the year 1754; and though too small for the congre-
gations, are kept in tolerable good repair.  The incum-
bent, whose living 83 L. 6 s. 8 d. Sterling in money,
with a small money allowance in lieu of manse and glebe,
preaches aternately in these churches, but must go, once
in the quarter, to the Island of Ulva, where he preaches
in the open air, for want of a church.  It was also cus-
tomary for him to preach twice in the quarter at Aros,
distant 8 computed miles from his residence, till the com-
mittee on the Royal Bounty, about the year 1776, esta-
blished a mission in Mull; by which the division of Aros,
together with the outskirts of the other 2 large parishes,
of which this island consists, are supplied in ordinances.
This missionary has only 25 L. Sterling of salary, without
any accommodation whatever.  So parfimonious is the
provision made for the administration of religious ordi-
nances, in this part of the country, that although every
minister has parochial bounds assigned him, extensive
enough to require the labours of 3 clergymen, yet the
stipends drawn by 3, would be no more than an adequate
living for 2, especially considering the personal toil and
expense to which they are necessarily exposed, in the dis-
charge of their function.-The clergy are not the only
people who have cause to complain of this extreme and
improvident frugality.  Schoolmasters are no less affect-
ed by it.  At present, there is but one parochial school


