
594			          FORFARSHIRE.

                                  IV.-INDUSTRY.

        Agriculture and Rural Economy.-
The number of Scotch acres in the parish, cultivated or occasionally in tillage, is 3300
					  uncultivated, 		             195
					  capable of being cultivated with profit,
					     not ascertained,
				          in undivided common,  	               0
  					  under wood, all of which is planted,       150

	The rent of the best arable land is L.3, 15s. per acre, Scots;
and of inferior arable land from L.1 to L.2. The annual rent of
the parish is about L.6000 a year.
        Rate of Wages.-Males engaged in agriculture obtain from
L.10 to L.14 annually, and females from L.6 to L.7. Labourers
receive 1s. 8d. per day in summer, and 1s. 6d. in winter, not in-
cluding victuals; masons and carpenters, 2s. 6d. in summer, and
2s. in winter.
        Husbandry.-Husbandry is in a state of growing prosperity.
The improved system is universally adopted. Draining is well
understood, and practised according to the most judicious and un-
exceptionable methods. A few of the fields are enclosed with
hedges; the generality with substantial stone dikes, which are
deemed preferable. Many of the farm-houses and offices are
convenient and respectable; but some of them are still defective
in accommodation and comfort. The tenantry are skilful and in-
dustrious, and the landlords are considerate and liberal. A va-
riety of breeds of cattle is to be found in this quarter; but the
common Angus breed is in greatest request.
        Produce.-The gross yearly amount and value of raw produce
raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, are as fol-
lows:-

<TABLE>

         111 acres of wheat, at L.11 per acre,    L.1221   0  0
         363 do. of harley, at L.7, 10s.            2722  10  0
         838 do. of outs, at L.7,                   5866   0  0
         320 do. of turnips, at L.7,                2240   0  0
         168 do. of potatoes, at L.10,              1680   0  0
         470 do. of new grams, at L.4,              1880   0  0
         880 do. of old pasture, at L.1, 10,        1320   0  0
          40 do. of clean fallow,                      0   0  0
         Uncultivated pasture,                        80   0  0
         Thinnings of wood,                           40   0  0
         Dairy produce,                             1500   0  0
                                                  ____________
                    Total value of raw produce,   18,549  10  0

                        V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
        Market-Town.-The nearest post and market-town is Dundee,
which is five-miles distant from the church. It is almost super-
fluous to say, that the vicinity of this flourishing place is of incal-
culable advantage to this locality. Here, there is a growing de-


