
     of Cortachy and Clova.

   Soil and Surface.-The soil of these united parishes is in
general poor, upon a cold and wettish bottom.  The haugh
ground, on the banks of Esk, is an open light soils, in ma-
ny places interspersed with, or bordering on, peat moss.
The greatest part of there parishes is mountainous, and cal-
culated only for pasture.  The hills in Cortachy are chiefly
covered with heath, with a small mixture of rough grass a-
long their sides.  Those in Clova are, in general, green,
producing excellent grass, and well adapted for sheep.  In
some places the hills are sleep and rocky, and almost all of
them abound with large whin-stone.

   Climate and Diseases.-The air is sharp and piercing, par-
ticularly on the high grounds.  That part of the united pa-
rishes, which is situated among the Grampian hills, is, in
winter, generally covered with snow to a great depth, which
often is not all dissolved before the months of June and July.
The climate is favourable to health, and many of the inha-
bitants live to the age of 70 and 80 years.  The most pre-
valent distempers are rheumatism and fevers, which are pro-
bably occasioned by the variations of the weather.

   River, Lakes, and Fish.-The only river in the united pa-
rishes is the Esk.  Originating among the Grampian hills, it
passes through both parishes; and, after traversing a course
of 16 miles to the eastward, empties itself into the sea at
Montrose.  It produces plenty of small trouts, but very few
salmon; the latter being prevented from coming up by the
number of cruives in the way.  The only lakes deserving no-
tice are Loch Brandy in the parish of Clova, and Loch Churl in
the parish of Cortachy.  They are situated on the north side
of the Esk, nigh the summit of the Grampian hills, and are
distant about 2 miles from each other.  On the north side

     VOL. X. 4 C


