
180 		EDINBURGHSHIRE.

that any families of that class have had houses in this parish. Atpre-
sent,there are not more than six or eight such families.  The po-
pulation, therefore, may be considered as almost entirely occupied
in agriculture, and in such branches of commerce or of trade as
are necessary in all communities.
   The men who work at the powder manufactory must also, how-
ever, be taken into account.  They are, in general, of a very re-
spectable character.

<TABLE>
                              						Males.    Fermales.
	In 1821, the numbers below 15 years of age were             278        289
                             from 15 to 80,     .   .    .        156        179
                                  30 to 50,     .   .    .        114        146
                                  50 to 70,     .   .    .         83         96
                                  70 to 90,     .   .    .         12         22
                                                                  ----       ----
                                                    Total,        643        702
    The yearly average of births at that time was about          30
                              deaths,   .    .    .    .         20
                              marriages .    .    .    .         11
    At present the average of birth is about      .    .         35
                              deaths,   .    .    .    .         25
                              marriages,     .    .    .         16

   The number of illegitimate births in the parish within the last
three years, is 16.

       The number of families employed in agriculture is about 186
                                          trade,    .     .     60
                      other families,         .     .     .     51
                                                               ----
                         Families in all,                      297

                         Average number in each family,         4 1/2

   The population having been encreased by 100 since the census
was taken in 1821, some allowance must be made in the relative
proportions of births, deaths, and marriages, as adapted to the
present numbers.  I have not had an opportunity of ascertaining
these numbers more precisely.
   The situation of the parish is reckoned favourable to health,
and some instances of persons attaining to a very advanced age are
occasionally occurring.
   Less rain is said to fall in this neighbourhood than in the ad-
joining,districts,--the clouds being detained or carried off bythe
Lammermuir hills on the south, and by the Pentland hills on the
north-west.  Yet the people who live along the open country be-
tween us and the Pentland range, commonly to the appear-
ance of the amosphere over our valley for signs of the weather
--and the ordinary command given to those who are sent out to
obtain such information is "Go see how the bole of Borthwick
looks." This however, arises not from our climate being more sub-


