
     of Sandwick and Stromness.

school-fees are, from 6 d. to 1 s. quarterly, for teaching to
read and write; and 1 s. 6 d. or 2 s. for writing and arith-
metic.  The schools are,
   In the village of Stromness, one grammar-school, where
Latin is taught.  Four schools, where the schoolmasters
teach reading, writing, and arithmetic.  Three schools, in
which school-mistresses teach reading, knitting stockings,
and sewing white seam.
   In the parish of Sandwick, one school, in which a school-
mistress teaches to read.
   There are usually from 200 to 350 scholars at all these
schools.

   Poor.-There are about 50 poor persons in the parish
and village of Stromness, and 12 poor persons in the parish
of Sandwick, to whom the sessions give money twice or
thrice a-year.  The funds for their support are, from col-
lections received at church on Sabbath, and on occasion of
administering the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, dues of
pall or mortcloth, anti fines; all which, in the parish of

<TABLE>

Sandwick, may amount yearly to about          L. 4   10   0
Deduct salary to session-clerk and officer,      1   10   0
                                                 ----------
Remains for support of poor in Sandwick,      L. 3    0   0

</TABLE>

   The sacrament of the Lords supper is rarely administered
at the church of Sandwick, by reason of its great distance
from the place of the minister's present residence, and, by
consequence, the collections at sacramental occasions add to
the funds for supporting the poor in the village and parish
of Stromness, which for 3 years were,


