
     Marischal College and College and University of Aberdeen.

ven by that prince to more than one of our Universities, in
which is the following clause: "Quatuor autem hos regentes
"nolumus, prout in regni nostri academiis olim mos fuit,
"novas prosessiones quotannis immutare, quo facetum fuit, ut
"dum multa proditerentur, in paucis periti invenirentur; ve-
"rum volumus in eadem prosessione se exerceant, ut adole-
"lescentes qui gradatim ascendunt, dighum suis studiis et in-
" geniis praeceptorem reperire queant."
   In the year 1755, a new order of teaching was adopted in
this University, by the unanimous approbation of all the
members; an account of which was then printed for the in-
formation of the public.  Of this arrangement and system of
education, which has been successfully prosecuted ever since
that period, with very little variation, the following is an
abstract:
   The order formerly observed in this College was that fol-
lowed by most of the ancient philosophers, which was after-
wards espoused by the scholastics, and generally adopted by
all the Universities in Europe.  They began with logic, then
proceeded to ontology, pneumatology, morals, politics, and
last of all, taught natural philosophy.  The peripatetic philo-
sophy, at least as far as it was espoused by the commentators
and followers of Aristotle, was in a great measure made up
of verbal subtleties, and theories, ill grounded, though inge-
niously devised.  These were supported by arguments mould-
ed into an artificial form, the mechanism of which must first
be understood, and it was laid open by the logic then in use.
The chief bussiness of that philosophy was to express opinions
in hard and unintelligible terms; the student needed a dic-
tionary or nomenclature of the technical words, and author-
ized distinctions; experiment was quite neglected and science
was to be reasoned out from general principles, either taken
for granted, or deduced by comparison of general ideas, or

     P 2


