
     of Kinnoul.

church; the stated dues for the mort-cloth at burials; dues
on marriages; a voluntary contribution of the heritors and
parishioners, who do not contribute at the church doors, or who
only attend the church occasionally; and the interest of L. 170
lent out on proper security, by consent of the heritors, at 4 1/2
per cent; amounting at an average, to L. 50 per annum.  The
number of poor upon the parish roll at present is 18, who re-
ceive weekly from 6 d to 1 s 6 d, according to their circum-
stances.  Besides there stated pensioners, many occasional cha-
rities are given to families in distress; some receive payment
of their house-rent; some have the school-fees of their chil-
dren paid; and others receive some coals for the winter.
When the poor are entered upon the roll, their effects at their
death are supposed to belong to the poor's fund; but very
little advantage accrues from this, as generally the claims of
relations for attendance, and the expence of the funeral, is
more than the effects of the deceased will repay.  An intima-
tion is given twice a year to the heritors, to meet with the
Session, to make up a list of the poor, and provide for their
maintenance; although no legal assessment has been hitherto
laid on the parish; and it is hoped, it will not be found ne-
cessary, if non-residing heritors and others who do not con-
tribute at the church, or who only attend occasionally, bestow
their charity, according to their abilities.

   Antiquities.-About a quarter of a mile south from the
church, there is a small vestige of the old castle of Kinnoul.
Hector Boethius, takes notice of a curious interview between
King James the I. and an old lady who resided there.  "The
"story, (says Cant, in his history of Perth), is not altogether
"improbable.  The King was inquisitive; the lady was above
"100 years old, and had seen five of the King's predecessors,
"besides Wallace the governor.  Boece, informs us, that


