
     Statistical Account

at the rate of nine stone Dutch to the boll; which comes to
54 stone Dutch in the year.  A day-labourer at that period
had 4 d. a day with, or 7 d. without maintenance.  Of late
the wages of both have been increasing, that of a hired ser-
vant now is 40 s. in the half year; and that of a day-labour-
er is 6 d. with, and 9 d. without maintenance.  At heavy
work, such as the peat-moss, harvest, etc. day labourers get
9 d. with, and 1 s. without their victuals.  The wages of fe-
male servants, though it has increased of late, is still more
moderate than that of the men; at an average it is about
15 s. or 16 s. in the half year, with maintenance, which they
always receive in the family in which they serve.

   Servants and labourers having families, live much more
comfortably than would at first view be expected from the
smallness of their wages.  But, besides their wages and meal,
all if them have some perquisites from the tenants, along
with their houses; as land to plant potatoes, or sow a little
barley, a small garden for cabbages and greens, etc.  With
these and the industry of their wives, they contrive to sup-
port themselves, and to bring up a family.

   Roads and Bridges.-The military road from Stirling to
Fort George crosses this parish, that road with two bridges
on it within this parish, was made, and is kept in repair by
government.  The military road from Fort George to Fort
Augustus, passes along the whole length of the parish; there
are four bridges on it.  This road was made about twelve
years ago by the statute labour, but has lately been repaired,
and in some places altered in the direction, and four bridges
have been built upon it, at the public expence.  Both these
roads are in excellent repair.  The county road from In-
verness to Nairn goes also through this parish; it was made


