
     The Statistical Account.

   Articles of Export.-Consisting of oak timber, hoops,
bark, forest timber of all kinds, wool, woollen cloths, linen
and linen yarn, state, potatoes, skins, cheese, whisky, etc.
   It may be further observed, that as he highland grass
farms are greatly over-burdened with tenants, in the propor-
tion perhaps of about one to fifteen:  so, one of the greatest
improvements in that part of the country would be, to ease
there farms of a number of the present possessers, and settle
them in the straths or valleys, by erecting villages.
   The inland parts of Perthshire, should the proposed un-
dertaking be accomplished, seem particularly adapted for the
settlemment of villagers; being at the southern extremity of
the North Highlands; having great command of water-falls,
and an immense supply of wool:  so that the woollen manu-
factures, in particular, might be conducted there with singu-
lar advantage.

   N.B.  It is believed, that a canal from Perth to Crieff, a
distance of less than 20 miles, almost upon a dead level,
which might be accomplished at an expence of about 10,000 L
Would answer all the above valuable purposes.

     Nov. 1798.

     Instructions for a Survey of the Perthshire Canal

   You are desired to prepare a survey, plan, and estimate of
a navigable canal, from 4 to 5 feet deep, and from 8 to 10
broad, with convenient passing places upon the sides, along
the following lines, viz.
   1st, From the town of Crieff, or its vicinity eastwards to
the Frith of Tay, keeping as near the town of Perth as
possible.
   2d, From the vicinity of the town of Crieff eastward, to
the village of Comrie or its neighbourhood.


