
     of Kirkoswald.

but once a day.  Notwithstanding all this, it appears, by a
note from the clerks of the lime works, there were brought
into this parish in summer 1791, 48,000 bushels of lime
shells.
   Several marle pits have been found, within these three
years, in those parts of the parish which lie at the greatest
distance from the lime, and within an English mile of the
sea.  So easily is the marle wrought, that one farmer with
6 horses, manured 30 acres in summer 1791.  It is put out
of the pit, ready to be taken away at 1 d. per cart, and 80
cart loads are allowed to each acre.  The farms thus manured
promise to be soon in a high state of cultivation.
   When speaking of the different kinds of manure, one cir-
cumstance deserves to be mentioned.  On a farm upon the
shore, there have been observed from time immemorial, with-
in 30 yards of the sea-mark, two large hillocks, 10 yards
distant from each other, covered with sand and bent.  About
12 years ago, by a violent storm from the sea, the end of one
of the hillocks was uncovered, and there appeared something
like coal ashes.  This called the farmers attention, who im-
mediately opened up the hillock, and discovered a prodigi-
ous quantity.  These ashes were used as manure, first upon
ley ground, and afterwards, mixed with lime, on light croft
ground, with little or no success; but were found to answer
well for garden roots.  Although above 1000 large cart loads
have been taken, yet there remain in the two hillocks, at a
moderate computation, above 3000 loads more.  Tradition
does not inform us whence these ashes came in such quantity.
There is no vestige of any building whatsoever, nearer than
the old farm-horse, and the place is 4 English miles distant
from any coal work.  It has been supposed they are the ef-
fects of barbarous superstition in times of idolatery in this
country.

     VOL. X. 3 Q


