
     Statististical Account

mong which perhaps may be reckoned, an increased luxury,
from an emulation that has been excited amongst them, and
their tenants being deprived of the benefit of their example
in improving their lands, and even perhaps in improving
their manners.  To convince us that this observation is
founded, it is obvious, that in such islands and parishes as
the proprietors, when they have been men of sense and vir-
tue, have for some time resided, the people are more decent
in their appearance, more civilized, and much more industri-
ous.  There are at present a dozen of gentlemens families
resident here.  Two established clergymen, 1 physician that
practices, 2 surgeon apothecaries, and 4 practising proctors
or attorneys.  To the causes which have been mentioned a-
bove, as contributing to increase the population, we may
with propriety add three more, namely the almost total fai-
lure of the crops for some years, which drove many poor fa-
milies from the isles into the town; the partial suppression
of smuggling, which has forced the monied men to lay out
their capitals in more useful, as well as in more honest in-
dustry; and the circumstance of many of the owners of kelp
living here, and laying out a part of their augmented in-
comes in employing tradesmen.  The marriages, especially
among what are called the better sort of people, are usually
very productive.  They have often 10, 12, and even 15
children.  There is a clergyman in this Synod still alive,
though above 80 years of age, to whom one wife bore 22;
and the present provolt's father, who was a native of this
country, had by only two wives 36 children.-As the trade
is but small, and the manufactories still less, in proportion to
the population, every year drives many of the most promi-
sing young men abroad in search of a livelihood.  Many fe-
male servants annually leave this place for London, New-
castle, and particularly for Edinburgh, from which they sel-


