
     Statistical Account

contains 17 1/2 pounds avoirdupois.  The peats are got from
several mosses in or near the parish.

   Ploughs and Carts.-There are about 25 ploughs in the
parish, and 30 carts.  The ploughs are mostly of the Scotch
sort.  The English ones are coming into use, and are found
to be much superior to the other.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-There are 5 inns and alehouses
in the parish, 4 of which are upon the road from Queens-
ferry to Perth.  Only two of them are necessary for the ac-
commodation of travellers.  The parish, in general, is sober.
It has been found, by experience, very prejudicial to suffer
spirits to be sold at the turnpike houses.-The number of 
houses in the country has been for some years diminishing,
and the villages increasing.-Cottages are less employed in
agriculture than formerly; partly because the farmers think it
cheaper to make use of hired servants; and partly because the
people are more employed in trades and manufactures, which
are more conveniently carried on in towns and villages than
in the country.  It is, however, believed, that the farmers
have derived but little advantage from this change; and the 
community has suffered by it, as the people in the country
commonly have larger families, are more healthy, and more
virtuous, than the inhabitants of villages and towns.  A good
deal of attention has been paid, of late years, to the roads
in the parish.  They were made, and are now kept in repair,
by the statute work.  The carriages are exacted in kind;
but the personal labour is commuted.  There is good gravel in
the neighbourhood, which lies conveniently for a considerable
part of the roads.  Several bridges have been built of late.
There are now good roads through a great part of the parish,
and they are still continuing to improve them.  The roads,


