
     of Kiltearn.

rank to the heritors are the better fort of farmers, who may
be thus classed:

<TABLE>

Tenants paying about L. 80 rent   2
                        40        3
                        30        4
                        20        4
          from L. 20 to 10        9
          from L. 10 to  3       56
                                ----
                                 78

</TABLE>

   The principal farmers mentioned above keep good cattle and
farming utensils; and of late years they sow some clover and
rye-grass feeds, as well as their landlords.  They are also
ambitious to have their farms properly inclosed, on rea-
sonable terms; but the other classes of tenants consider in-
closures as a grievance, and would rather partake of every
thing in common.  Their cattle are also of an interior size;
and they never sow grass feeds; but, instead of this, when
their land is exhausted by a repeated succession of crops,
they allow it to lie lea or untilled for two or three years; du-
ring which time they pasture it till it gets a turf again; and
then till and sow it with oats, and leave another piece of
ground lea in its turn.  It is no wonder that these farmers
should have poor returns from their lands; for, nothing but
scaty crops can be expected from such wretched manage-
ment.  Another class of people still remains to be mentioned,
who, though they cannot be strictly called farmers, are so in
part, as they occupy one, two, or three acres of ground.
These are commonly called cottars, i. e. cottagers, or mail-
ers, and often hold of the principal farmer.  They do not
depend on farming for their entire support, being, in ge-


