
     of Boleskine and Abertarf.

   In all contests betwixt the Lovat family, their neigh-
bours, and others, the Stratherrick tribes were ready upon
the first summons to espouse the cause of their chief; and as
every tribe arranged itself under its particular leader, the
county of Stratherrick exhibited a species of military su-
bordination.  If any dispute happened among individuals
in the country, it was generally terminated by the strong-
hand, or the baron-baillie placed there by the Lovat fami-
ly, who was vested with the extravagant jurisdiction of the
times.  As the wadsetters had the lands on very moderate
conditions, the principal rent demanded by them from their
sub-tenants and cottars was military attendance, and their
aid and assistance in such agricultural and rural services as
was necessary for the wadsetter's accommodation.
   Till the beginning of this century, the whole heritors and
wadsetters in this parish, lived in houses, composed of cup-
ple trees, and the walls and thatch made up of fod and di-
vot; but in every wadsetter's house, there was a spacious hall,
containing a large table, where he an his family and de-
pendants eat their two meals a-day, with this single distinc-
tion, that he and his family sat at the one end of the table,
and his dependants at the other; and it was reckoned no
disparagement for the gentlemen to sit with commoners in
the inns, such as the country then afforded, where one cap,
and afterwards a single glass, went round the whole com-
pany.  As the inhabitants experienced no want, and gene-
rally lived on the produce of their farms, they were hospi-
table to strangers, providing they did not attempt a settle-
ment among them.  But is was thought then disgraceful for
any of the younger sons of these wadsetters, to follow any
other profession that that of arms and agriculture; and it is
in the remembrance of many now living, when the meanest
tenant, would think it disparaging, to fit at the same table
with a manufacturer.  In progress of time, however, these


