
     of the University of Glasgow.

   Natural Philosophy.-The lectures in NATURAL PHILOSO-
PHY comprehend a general system of physics; and are calcu-
lated, in like manner, to keep pace with those leading im-
provements and discoveries, in that branch of science, by
which the present age is so much distinguished.  The theore-
tical and experimental parts make the subjects of two separate
courses.  The apparatus for conducting the latter is believed
not to be inferior to any in Europe.

   Mathematics.-The professor of MATHEMATICS has three
separate courses.  The first comprehends the elements of
geometry and algebra; the second, the higher parts of those
sciences; the third, the general principles of geometry and
astronomy.  To teach the application of the speculative doc-
trines to the various practical arts, makes a very important
object in this useful department of education.

   Theology.-In the faculty of THEOLOGY, the respective
professors of theology, church history, and oriental langua-
ges, deliver a system of lectures on natural and revealed re-
ligion, on the history of the church, and on the Hebrew lan-
guage.  In this faculty, no honorarium, or fee, is paid by the
students.  If this regulation had been extended to all the
sciences, it would probably have been fatal to academical ac-
tivity; but, being limited to a single branch, it has been
counteracted by the influence of the general industry and ex-
ertion which pervade the society.  No deficiency, therefore,
is imputable to the professors in this department, either with
respect to their zeal in teaching, or with respect to those li-
beral and tolerating principles which are so conformable to
the spirit and genius of Christianity.

   Law.-The improvement of LAW in this University,


