
     The Statistical Account.

     PARISH OF NEWLANDS.

     Additional Information.

     BY THE REV. MR FINDLATER.

   Population.-IT hath not been found convenient to make
an actual enumeration of the population since the original
Report was given in; few general causes have, however, oc-
curred, to afford ground for conjecturing that it hath been
any way materially affected.
   The manufacturing of paint from iron ore at Lamancha
(mentioned in the Report) has been discontinued; but the
cessation of employment from this circumstance, would ap-
pear to have been more than compensated by the increased
demand for labour at the lime quarries, and consequently at
the coal mines.
   No considerable difference hath taken place as to the
mode of occupying the lands, to affect perceptibly the state
of population.  In two instances lands, occupied by the pro-
prietors in grazing.  have been let to farmers; in one of
these instances, for the purpose of tillage, which rather
speaks to increase of hands.  In another instance, a farm,
managed by the farmer upon the old unproductive system,
has been taken into the proprietor's own hands for improve-
ment; which no doubt bespeaks additional demand for la-
bour.  One considerable tillage farm has been let for graz-
ing.  No other instances worth mentioning, in point of mag-
nitude, have occurred either as to union or disjunction of
farms, or variation in their mode of occupancy.
   There were few weavers in the parish dependent upon the
weaving of cotton:  of course the population was hardly at all
affected by the shock given to manufacturing credit in 1793.
   Balancing the different causes that have occurred, tend-

     3 C 2


