
     of Rerrick.

   Exports and Imports, etc.-This is the more earnestly to be
wished for, as a spirit of improvement, introduced here only
about 25 years ago, is still advancing; and consequently the
articles of export and import are daily multiplying and in-
creasing.  As a specimen, the annual importation of lime, for
the purposes of building and manure, is about 10,000 bushels;
besides considerable internal resources of marl, shells, and
sea slime.  And there are exported, at an average, 15,280
stones of meal; 116 tons of potatoes; 880 bushels of barley;
231 of bear, and 198 of wheat.

   Cultivation and Improvements.-Whether it is owing to the
soil, which in many places is cold and spungy, or to its ele-
vation and exposure to the sea, even where it is dry, in a
country entirely naked with respect to wood, or to the want
of convenient and sufficient subdivisions, or to whatever other
assignable cause, is not determined; but the farmers do not
find their account in cultivating the last mentioned article,
(wheat); so that very little attention, in general, has hitherto
been paid to it.  These inconveniences, however, with many
other obstructions to the improvement of husbandry, are daily
removing, by the united exertions of the gentlemen, in plant-
ing, repairing roads, inclosing ground, and binding down
tenants to certain regulations.  The yearly fund, denominated
road-money, is about 40 L.; which is often considerably aug-
mented by handsome donations from some of the proprietors.
And so prevalent is the laudable ambition of wiping off the
reproach of our country, in respect of its wanting wood, that,
within these few years, there have been planted, in the parish,
upwards of 170,000 forest trees; besides several new orchards,
to which the proprietors are paying the utmost attention, by
collecting plants from the places most noted for nurseries.

     VOL. XI. G


