
     of Kirkwall and St Ola.

grain of various sorts, and of a quality much superior to what
is produced just now, might be raised on it, but also grass,
turnip, and other green crops, to the no small benefit of
Kirkwall.  Such parts as are already in tillage, seem of a na-
ture well fitted for the production of flax and hemp; and,
could these very useful articles be produced here, to dress
and to manufacture them, would afford employment for our
people when they are but too often idle through the tedious
season of winter.  But making of kelp rouses the attention,
and occupies the industry of almost all descriptions of men
here.  Every employment else is regarded as of little mo-
ment.  The farmers here seldom yoke the plough, in order
to prepare the soil for a new crop, till the spring season ar-
rives, when there is only time to give it a hasty rude scratch
on the surface with the clumsy one-stilted plough, just before
the oats are sown, which happens generally in the month of
March, or about the beginning of April.  The land which is
intended for bear is commonly stirred in the last mentioned
month; it is soon after covered with rotten or fresh sea-weed
as a manure; and it has the seed thrown into it when it has
received a second plowing in the month of May following.
Though, at first sight, it might appear, that, in this remote
northern climate, the harvest would be late, yet this is by no
means the case.  In ordinary seasons, the corn is as soon
reaped as it is in many places of Scotland; for they begin
about the 1st of September to cut down the crop, which they
continue doing for that month; and, unless when the wea-
ther is very bad, it is generally all in the corn-yard by the
first or second week of October.

   Language.-The Gaelic language, so far as can be discover-
ed, was never spoken by the people of these parishes.  They
at present, like the rest of Scotland, speak a mixture of Scotch.

     VOL. VII. 4 A


