
     of Aberdeen.

   Though the preceding tables are as accurate as can be
made from our registers, they are by no means perfectly
correct.  That no person may be misled by forming calcu-
lations from them, I have therefore deemed it expedient to
subjoin the following remarks:-From the register of mar-
riages I have given in the first column of the tables the
number of marriages in which the man only resided in the
parish; in the second column, the number in which the
woman only resided in the parish; and in the third, the
number in which both parties belonged to the parish.  As
in most marriages, in which the parties reside in different
parishes, the woman is supposed to leave her own, and to go
to her husband's parish, I consider the fourth column, which
gives the sum of the first and third, as containing the num-
ber of marriages which properly belong to this parish.  As,
however, several instances have occurred, in which the man
has come to reside in the parish of the woman, this mode of
reckoning may not be perfectly accurate; I have therefore
chosen to add the second and fifth columns, that every per-
son may calculate from the table upon any principle he may
incline to adopt.  I must farther observe, that the number
of marriages mentioned in the table, especially during the
last ten years, is considerably short of the truth.  This is
owing to many loose and disorderly persons, who are an-
nually fined for irregular marriages by the justices of peace.
In such instances the ignorant parties always consider the
magistrate, and avowedly speak of him as the celebrator of
the marriage.  They are tempted to have recourse to this
absurd and irregular method of obtaining marriage, because
it may be accomplished width greater secrecy and expedi-
tion than by observing the legal ceremonies.  It is there-
fore frequently adopted in this place, when the consent of
parents cannot be obtained, when the woman is pregnant,
or when prudence, or the laws of the country present any


