
     Of Corstorphine.

from being readily flooded by water after heavy and in-
cessant rains.  From their level situation, the water is not
easily removed, the ground thereby injured, and the hopes
of the husbandman often frustrated.  There is a vast track
of meadow ground, which is subjected to this inconve-
nience.  If there are great falls of rain early in harvest,
the whole crop is in danger of being lost; which hath not
unfrequently happened.  To drain these grounds. and to
subject them to the culture of the plough, hath been of
late a considerable object of attention to the proprietors,
and sums of money expended.  And so great and incon-
venient was the accumulation of waters on these grounds
in former times, that in the last century, it was made an
object of parliamentary attention:  and, in 1661, an act
of parliament was passed, enjoining a strict attention to
the clearing, every two years, what is called the great
drain, and empowering every one interested in it to com-
pel the others through whose lands it passes to do their
part.  The inconvenience, from the superabundance of
stagnated waters, hath in part been removed; for so con-
sidrable was it, that the Lords Forester of Corstorphine
were accustomed to bring their provisions from Edinburgh,
by water carriage, in a boat, from Coltbridge to their
house of Corstorphine; where there are the remains of a 
very considerable moat or ditch for holding water.  But 
while this evil hath been removed, the chief object, viz.
to bring the lands into a state of culture, hath not been
procured; and, between the two, a material loss hath been
sustained.  These grounds formerly produced very heavy
crops of grass and aquatic plants; and, before the intro-
duction of broad clover, were the chief supply of the 
Edinburgh market, for green food for cattle; by the par-
tial draining they have received, they are rendered too dry

     VOL.  XIV.  3 M


