
     of Inverury.

upon Ury too.  This will not cost near so much as the o-
ther; and it is hoped some aid will be obtained from govern-
ment, as the King's high-way, from Aberdeen to Elgin, Fort
George, and Inverness, passes through Inverury; and there is
a saving of 14 miles by travelling that road, rather than the
lower one by Old Meldrum and Turreff.

   Heritors.-In the country part of the parish there are 7
heritors; none of whom reside in it but one, viz. Mr John-
ston of Woodhill, who occupies a well improved farm on the
banks of the Don.  He has planted 50 or 60 acres of the
higher ground with various kinds of forest trees, principally
Scotch firs, and they are in a very thriving condition.
   The names of the old farm town, appear to be Gaelic,
though this language has not been spoken in that part of the
country for many centuries.

   Agriculture.-The farms are of various sizes, from 4 l. to
40 L. of yeary rent.  The mode of cultivation is consider-
ably improved of late, but much yet remains to be done in
that way.  Oats and barley are the principal crops.  The a-
verage of the returns may be reckoned 4 of the former, and
5 of the latter.
   The farmers have only of late begun to Bring lime from
Aberdeen, in any considerable quantities, to lay on their land.
Every one now sows turnips, and plants potatoes in the field,
and the ground next year is sown with barley and grass seeds,
for hay or pasture.

   Rent.-The valued rent of the parish is 1634 L. Scotch,
exclusive of the borough, which has no valuation in the col-
lector of the counties books.  The real rent of the whole
parish is about 700 1. Sterling.


