
     of Craignish.

period, but none of their taste or genius; and, when viewed
with a philosophic eye, they must excite, by contrast, the
most pleasing sensations in the breast of the beholder: For,
whether they were built by Danes or Celts, or both, they
impress strongly on the mind the violence and wretchedness
of the times in which they were constructed; and must en-
dear to the present race that security and happiness which
they enjoy in a period more enlightened, and under a govern-
ment better regulated.
   In the strath of the parish many monuments of death ap-
pear, which, in an artless, but striking manner, record the
battles of former times.  There many grey stones rear their
heads in the heath, to mark the graves of fallen heroes.  A
cluster of these rude obelisks is to be seen quite close to Ge-
neral Campbell's house of Craignish.  This curious collec-
tion, the General, with a laudable respect for antiquity, has
allowed to stand unmolested.  Farther up the valley, towards
the mountains, one of more than ordinary size was erected,
to distinguish the grave of a warrior, who, as is said, fell
there in the pursuit.  Some remains of cairns, or heaps of
stones, that covered the graves where the ashes of the dead
were deposited, are also to be seen.  This place is reported
by tradition, to have been the scene of a bloody engagement
between the Danes and the natives.  In this action, Olaus,
said to have been a son of the King of Denmark, was slain.
Near the field of battle, there is a little mount or tumulus,
which is dignified by the name of this hero; it is called, to
this day, Dunan Aula, or the Little Mount of Olaus.  There,
it seems, he was interred; and not many years ago, as some
workmen were employed in inclosing this spot, they disco-
vered, after removing some loose stones, a grave composed of
four flags.  Upon inspecting this repository, they found an
urn.  Imagining they had got a treasure, they broke it; but


