
     Statistical Account

of all reasons, because he has no market.  This is not mere
theory, it is founded on fact; and the circumstances are
mentioned merely for the purpose of pointing out to specu-
latists in farming the almost inturmountable difficulties which
must be encountered by poor men, whose backwardness in
ameliorating their farms, they are too often disposed to
ascribe to ignorance, indolence, and obstinacy.
   Let not the generous heart, therefore, load them with in-
vective, or treat them with severity, for thinking once and
again before they enter on measures which, however sensible
they may be of their good effects when persevered in, may
eventually prove their ruin.  To the benevolent mind, on
the contrary, it will afford pleasure gradually to lay open to
their view what may be most conducive to their benefit, to
stimulate their exertions by suitable encouragement, and to
see them contented and happy in the possession of those
comforts which are suited to their sphere in life.  To this
mode of conduct, it is to be hoped, that the farmers in this
parish may have the comfort of looking forward.  It is with
much pleasure mentioned, that the present proprietors offer
premiums to encourage the industrious; pay the expence of
small temporary inclosures, to enable them to experience the
utility of sown grasses; and allow melioration for comfortable
houses.  A number of farms have undergone judicious di-
visions of from 20 to 60 acres each.  Customs and carriages
have been converted; run ridges have been abolished; and,
it is not doubted, that proper leases will be given to those
who discover a wish to improve.  Nor will they experience
that this treatment of their inferiors will run in opposition
to their interest.  The above mentioned division of the farms
they will find particularly beneficial.  From the too preva-
lent practice of uniting small farms, it is confessed that a
proprietor may have his rents collected with somewhat less


