
     Statistical Account

at the head of the clay land; but in this, and all other large
tracts of horizontal land, whatever be the nature of the soil,
there can be no springs, for a very obvious reason.

   Character, Dress, etc.-The people are remarkable for their
decency and sobriety.  None have been banished, or have
suffered the higher pains of law, in any other respect, for
misconduct, in the memory of man.  Remote from the temp-
tations and lurking places of great towns, where the profli-
gate expect to elude the eye of the world, and to escape the
lash of the law, in a crowded population, every man considers
himself as known to his neighhours, and that he has both his
own reputation, and the credit of his ancestors, to support by
his conduct.  Habits of industry have become familiar to the
people, whatever object they have in view.  In literature
they have not been deficient, when their genius led them to
the pursuit of study, and the improvement of the mind.  One
minister, one preacher, and three students, now alive, drew
their first breath in this parish.-A remarkable change has
lately taken place in the article of dress.  The love of show
is natural; and imaginary wants are sometimes no less cla-
morous than those which are real.  But, if the increase of
their earnings do not furnish the labouring part of mankind
with this increase of luxury, their savings, upon which they
are to begin the world, must be less at present than when their
wages were more moderate, and their clothing less expen-
sive.

