
     Statistical Account

   This method would create a taste for agriculture among
the youth of our country; an emulation would take place
from the school.  The young farmer would rejoice to enter
upon, and excel in the profession of his fathers; he would
acquaint his father with the principles of the science he
had learned; the father, in return, would confirm them,
with the sage observations he had made in the course of a
long experience; prejudices would be removed, important
knowledge respecting the art would be circulated; a noble
enthusiasm for agricultural improvements would be diffu-
sed through every parish.  Premiums from the Board of
Agriculture to the more ingenious and industrious, would
give the design additional efficacy and success.
   This country is employed in agriculture, manufactures,
and commerce.  The education should be adapted to these
objects.  Academies, upon a similar plan, established in
towns, and endowed with proper salaries, would be much
for the benefit of the public.  The bulk of mankind have
neither time nor money to procure a liberal education; a
scheme of this kind brings instruction within their reach.
and tends to reconcile them to it; would produce genius
and improvements in mechanics, manufactures, in all pro-
fessions; and communicate to the generality of the people
various branches of knowledge, of which they are at pre-
sent destitute.
   The foundation being thus established upon a well con-
ducted education, it may be proper to add some of these
means which might improve the present state of agricul-
ture in the parish.  Let it suffice to name the most ob-
vious.

   Hedge rows and Inclosures.-Though these abound in
the parish, it is to be wished they were reared with atten-
tion, and made more perfect.  Hedge-rows, of so long use


