
     Statistical Account

village, there are no less than 15 houses, where are or spi-
rits are retailed.  Yet the people, in general, are sober and
industrious in the extreme.  Not one is addicted to dram-
drinking or tippling; and very rarely is a tradesman, especi-
ally a manufacturer, seen in liquor.  A respectable number
attend public worship in the established church, and about 200
receive the sacrament of our Lord's supper annually.  At the
same time, there are many, who adhere both to the Burgher and
Antiburgher principles, and a few belong to the Church of
Relief.  There are also some classes of Independents, and
Baptists; besides several who disclaim all attachment to any
sect whatsoever, and seem to have no fixed principles of reli-
gion.  Concerning the numbers, and the peculiar tenets, of
these various separtists from the establishment, the present
incumbent has never been led to make any particular inquiry,
from an opinion, that while they are peaceable and good
members of society, and "live soberly, righteously, and godly,"
the speculative points, on which they may differ, are of very
little importance.  And it gives him much pleasure, to find a
spirit of forbearance and toleration universally prevailing, a-
mong all ranks and denominations in the parish*.

<FOOTNOTE>

* For an answer to the querries relating to Roman and other an-
tiquities, vid.  Pennat's Tour, printed in 1773.


