
     Of Kirkmichael.

tractive, there will be many candidates.  To aid them in this
career of ambition, it must be acknowledge, in alleviation of
their bias, that they have had models of imitation not unwor-
thy of the doctrines of a Machiavel.  Unfortunately for them,
these models have been strangers, and of that rank in life who
have always the most powerful influence in making proselytes
among the vulgar.
   Such are the causes to which it must be imputed, that there
is so little discrimination to be observed in the character of
the people of this country; for, where one object is pursued,
the means of attainment will be generally uniform.  Suspend-
ed between barbarism and civilization, the mind is never so
strongly influenced by virtue, as it is attracted by the mag-
netism of vice.  In this view, however, they are not singu-
lar from their neighbours.  From a combination of causes,
particularly high taxation,  and increasing commerce, avarice
and selfishness must necessarily constitute a prominent feature
in the character of many.  At the same time,  there may still
be found the usual proportion of persons of a different charac-
ter, conspicuous for honour and integrity, humane and bene-
volent, just and upright in their transactions.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-It has been observed, that the
centrical parts of this country lie at a considerable distance
from moss, which is yearly diminishing in proportion to the
consumption.  From the increase of population, and as the
natural woods are every where decaying, the period is ap-
proaching, when the Highlands must sensibly feel the difficult-
ty of procuring the necessary accommodation of fuel.  To
anticipate such an event, is an object that peculiarly calls for
the attention of proprietors.  There are few of this descrip-
tion in the Highlands, who are not possessed of considerable


