
     ofSorn.

plan was at first executed, from the uncertainty of its suc-
cess.

   Population.-Catrine contains in all 1350 souls-650
males, and 700 females.  Thirty-seven of these are Anti-
burgher, and 278 are Burgher Seceders, who attend divine
service in their respective churches, at Auchinleck and
Cumnock.  The number of births cannot be accurately as-
certained; for the Seceders here, as in most other places
through Scotland, do not register their childrens name in
the session-records.  However, at an average, for the 4 pre-
ceding years, 40 children belonging to the Established
Church have been annually baptized.  No account can be
given of the deaths; for although it is part of the original
plan of the village, as yet there is no churchyard here, and
the inhabitants bury in all the neighbouring parishes.  Ten
couple are married annually.  To account for the dispro-
portion between the births and marriages, give me leave to
add, that the great body of the inhabitants were married be-
fore they came to reside in this place; and many of the
young people, of both sexes, marry in other parishes.
   In the year 1793, the inhabitants consisted of 1601 souls;
of course, the Company have, at present, a great many emp-
ty houses; for which, if they could find tenants, they and
their families would be fully employed.-Exclusive of those
engaged in the cotton manufacture, there are the following
mechanics, viz. 3 blacksmiths; 6 house-carpenters; 7 ma-
sons; 7 tailors; 6 shoemakers; 1 dyer; 1 flaxdresser; 1 ba-
ker; 2 butchers; 91 weavers, including apprentices; 2 saw-
ers; 1 corn-miller; 3 brewers, including the clerk; 15 day-
labourers; 7 shopkeepers; and 7 or 8 alehouses.
   The prices of provisions, wages, etc. are nearly the same
as in the country part of the parish.


