
     of Beith.

There are two circumstances chiefly, which serve to account
for the high rent of lands in this neighbourhood.  The coun-
try is populous, and property is greatly subdivided.  Beith
is surrounded on all sides with considerable villages and towns,
to the number of 12, within as many miles.  The subdivi-
sion of property is more remarkable, in this and the neigh-
bouring parishes, than perhaps in any other part of Scotland.
There are in this parish 105 heritors, besides a considerable
number of smaller proprietors in the village.  This circum-
stance is supposed to have much influence upon the cultiva-
tion, and of consequence upon the produce and rent of lands.
The small land-holders generally reside upon their own pro-
perty; and improvements made by any of them, in the cul-
tivation of their lands, and management of their farms, are
more readily adopted by the rest, than those introduced by
persons who have large estates, or carry on farming upon a
more extensive scale, because they are evidently more within
their reach.  The lands in this parish are almost all arable,
and were generally inclosed many years ago.  The common
practice amongst farmers is to plough only a third part of
the arable ground annually, upon which they raise oats or
barley; but seldom any wheat, peas or beans.  Rye-grass
feed is frequently sown, where the ground is rich, or well
manured; but very little clover is raised, and sometimes hay
is made from the natural grass.

   Cheese, Cattle, etc.-The tenants in this parish pay their
rents chiefly from their dairy.  They almost universally make
sweet milk cheese.  The method of making this cheese was
first introduced into this country, by a farmer's wife in the
parish of Dunlop, about the beginning of this century; and
from this circumstance, it has got the name of Dunlop cheese.
It is a commodity which has been rising in value for a long

     R r 2


