
     of Inverarity.

ly marked by the description given of those who solicited
charity as beggars:-Stranger gentlemen,-poor gentle-
men,-distressed gentlemen,- are the appellations very
frequently given them; and what must have been the po-
verty! what the spirit of the times! when, as the record
informs us, a gentlemen accepted a sourpence, and a young
gentleman, recommended by a nobleman, was relieved by
a sixpence!

   Antiquities.-The only antiquity worth mentioning is a
Roman camp called Taersauds, in the moor of Lower.  It is
nearly a rectangular parallelogram, about 300 by 700 yards.
There is another camp, Battledykes, about 8 miles to the
north of this, in the parish of Oathlaw, and, from the traces
of a via militaries extending between them, it is probable that
these two encampments were connected together.  Neither
history nor tradition give any distinct account of either of
them.  Some antiquaries suppose them to have been built by
Agricola in his 6th campaign, when he obtained his victory
over the Caledonians, under Galgacus their cheif.

   Character of the People.-They are, in general, industrious
and sober; pleased with their situation, but not without am-
bition to improve it; remarkable for their attendance at
church; and improved both in their moral and religious cha-
racter.

     VOL. IV. R


