
     Of Cromarty.

the year 1785, partly at the expense of Government, and
partly that of Mr. George Ross late proprietor of the estate
of Cromarty; it receives vessels of 350 tons burden, and fur-
nishes a smooth landing place for the ferry-boat, in the most
boisterous weather.  The present proprietor of the lands of
Cromarty, in concurrence with the other trustees who are
appointed, by act of parliament, to attend to the support of
the quay, have it in contemplation, to build a pier upon the
opposite shore, in order to procure a smooth landing to the
ferry-boat upon the Ross-shire side.  Such a scheme, when
carried into execution, will be greatly in favour of this
place, insomuch, that scarce any weather will prevent the
course of the ferry-boat, between the two counties of Ross
and Cromarty.  The safety of this ferry may be judged of,
when no accident has been known to have happened upon it
in the memory of man.

   Population, etc.-According to Dr. Webster's report, the
population in 1755, was 2096.  The present incumbent finish-
ed a survey of the population of the parish on the 1st day of
April 1790, since which time no alteration as to number has
taken place.  The number of fouls in the country part of
the parish, amounts to 727, and in the town, to 1457, mak-
ing in all 2184.  There was a list of the inhabitants in the
country, taken by the former incumbent in the year 1785,
from which it appears, that there is a decrease of about 40
since that period; this, probably, has been occasioned by se-
veral small farms being joined into larger, though, upon the
whole, no great change, of this nature, has taken place in
this parish; another cause, is the emigration of labourers to
the south country, some of whom do not again return.  The
inhabitants of the town have, without doubt, increased con-
siderably within these last 18 years, which has been occasion-

     I i 2


