
     of Halkirk.

is a pity; for next to the boroughs, it is in the most cen-
trical and commodious place for a flourishing school in the
whole county.
   As to the other school, it is always full also, and am-
bulatory for the accommodation of this extensive and po-
pulous parish; yet two-thirds almost of the parish reap no
benefit from it, not only because of their distance from the
station, but also because it is difficult of access to many, who
may be nearer hand, most seasons of the year.  These cir-
cumstances render another school of the same kind neces-
sary in the Highlands, if it could be obtained.  Applica-
tions are making for it, and it is hoped that they will be
attended with success; for never have the Society applied
their funds to a more useful and necessary purpose.

   Antiquities, etc.-There are several vestiges of antiquity
in this parish, some of which are to be seen by the eye, and
some to be heard of by the ear, from oral tradition.  But
neither what is to be seen or heard, furnish a key, whereby
the truth can be so investigated as to afford any great in-
struction or amusement.  The remains that are visible
make, indeed, awful and pleasant impressions on the mind
of the beholder, and suggest to him a confused, but majestic
idea of what they once have been: yet they, at the same
time, affect him with pain, because the eagerness of his cu-
riosity cannot be gratified.  The avenues that lead up to
the object of his ardent pursuit and desire are closed on
every hand.  No inscription, no emblem, no monument.
A veil of obscurity intercepts his view, and eclipses the
light.  His curiosity is at a stand.  It cannot push on fur-
ther.  What must he do?  He retires full of what he has
seen, but full also of regret and disappointment, because he
did not see more of what his mind suggests to him it has
originally been.  But he rests not here.  He has recourse

     1


