
     of Aughtergaven.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-There is still ample room for
farther improvements in this parish.  Large tracts of ground,
where the soil is tolerably good, remain unimproved.  The
roads leading across the country, from the public roads, are
excessively bad, and, in winter, almost impassible.  Ditches
for draining the low wet lands, hedges, hedge-rows of trees,
and clumps of planting, for affording shelter, are much want-
ed.
   Many of the tenants, who have only small possessions, are
yet poorly accommodated as to lodging.  This is partly their
own fault; for, they certainly might, with a good deal of
trouble, but without much expence, render their little habi-
tations much more comfortable than they generally, are.
Numbers of them live together in small villages, in smoaky
damp houses, built of turf and stone, and thatched with straw
or heath.  The diseases most prevalent among them are
rheumatism, deasness, and epidemic fevers.
   There are several mosses in the parish.  From these the
people are plentifully supplied with fuel.  Of late, most of
the farmers, instead of peat and turf, use coals, which they
bring from Perth, and sometimes from the coal pits near
Kinross.  They find it more profitable to employ their ser-
vants and horses in fallowing and improving their land, than
in digging and driving peats during the summer.
   Lime was first applied to the ground as a manure here
about 30 years ago; but it was long after that time before it
came to be generally used by the tenants.
   Marl has been found in different places of the parish.  A
considerable quantity of it was lately dug out of a small
meadow upon the Duke of Atholl's estate, and sold at a very
moderate price.  One of Lord Mansfield's tenants, who, by
his activity and industry, has greatly forwarded some of the
improvements here, extracted at different times, some hun-


