
     General Appendix to [Vol. vi.

to superiority in the numbers of the people.  Large farms, un-
der the usual plan of management in this country, are, I am
convinced, at present, whatever may afterwards happen, unfa-
vourable to population; manufactures too, though doubtless a
source of great emolument to individuals, as well as of na-
tional wealth, prove a kind of drain which draw from the
country, for several miles around those towns where they are
established, not only the supersluous hands, but many others
who would otherwise be employed in the more salutary la-
bours of the field.  It is true indeed that the numbers in
flourishing cities and towns will increase in proportion as
those in the neighbouring parishes decrease.  But agriculture,
whether considered in a moral or political light, will always
be found to deserve the peculiar attention of the legislature,
whilst manufactures may for the most part be trusted to the
manufactures themselves; especially as the former is the more
favourable of the two to the propagation of a hardy and vir-
tuous race.  But I check my reasoning on this subject, into
which I have been led from my observation of the effects
manufactures on the operations of the husbandman in the
parish, both by alluring too many farm servants from their
proper work, the cultivation of the fields, and raising their
wages beyond their just proportion; an inconvenience which
has been of late very sensibly and heavily felt by the farmer,
who is at present obliged to pay more than double the wages
he paid 20 years ago.
   Your respectful treatment, Sir, of the clergy, and your pa-
triotic views and exertions for the good of your country,
ought undoubtedly, to have procured reports of the state of
their several parishes before this time; but I need not sug-
gest you, Sir, how difficult it is to excite even the most
moderate degree of energy in every individual of a large class
of men, whose indolence will in many cases preponderate


