
     of Wattin.

do not rear so many as are needed.  Indeed, from some mis-
taken notions, they seldom keep what they rear, till they are
fit for the purposes of labour.  When about a year old, they
are fold, and carried into the Orkneys; from whence they are
brought back, in their prime, and fold again at a very high.
rate.  Strathnaver, too, furnishes a good many horses and
mares for the accommodation of this quarter.

   Sheep.-The few sheep they may have to dispose of, are
consumed, either in the towns of Wick and Thurso, or in the
families around.  Indeed, that useful animal does not prosper
here so well as could be wished.  The moors, mosses, anti
commons are, it is thought, too wet for them.  But, besides
this natural disadvantage, they are not so well taken care of,
as they ought and deserve to be.  The pasture is not only
poor, but greatly overflocked: and they are, all the year
round, confined, during the night time, in very low close huts.
The winter season, too, is changeable, boisterous, and rainy.
Thus exposed, upon bare open fields, without any thing na-
tural or artificial to shelter them, numbers often die, during
the course of winter and spring, of what are here called the
rott, pock, and scab.

   Manufactures.-The only thing, besides corn and cattle,
which brings any money amongst us, is a little spinning, for
the manufactures in some of the more southern counties.
This, by the by, is but a mere trifle.  Our women, perhaps,
are more employed in the field, for at least 8 months in the
year, than in most other places of the kingdom.  This affords
the generality of them but little time for making any thing
considerable by that branch of business.  Almost every family,
too, fows what linseed they think will answer the purposes
of their own wearing.  The produce thereof, and the small


