
     of Buchanan.

of grain than was necessary for the maintenance of the in-
habitants, was raised; but of late years a great part of the
richer grounds being put under grass, has considerably di-
minished the produce in general.  The generality of the te-
nants keep near a third more of cattle than. they have pa-
sture for; which, though they will not believe it, turns out
more to their loss than their profit.  There are 5 entered
stills in the parish which do more than consume all the bar-
ley that grows in it.  The common Scots ploughs are ge-
nerally used; but instead of being made by the farmers
themselves as formerly, they are now, for the most part,
made by such wrights as are most remarkable in the coun-
try for making them, so that they are not now so clumsy
and heavy as usual.  But by far the greater part of this pa-
rish consists of hill or moor ground, and is covered with
rocks, moss and heath.  For 6 miles up the side of the loch,
each farm has a share of the moor which is contiguous to
itself; but several miles of the north end of the parish
have of late years been all put under sheep-pasture.  There
are only 27 ploughs going in the parish this year.
   Till of late there was rather a want of industry in this
parish, owing to what the farmers alleged, the shortness of
their tacks, which gave them no encouragement to improve,
and the difficulty of getting manure:  But a lime quarry
being some years ago found out in the moor above the pass,
near a moss where they get peats for burning the lime, the
farmers in the neighborhood make lime there every year,
which they bring to their grounds.  This has proved of con-
siderable advantage to their farms.  The farms below the
pals the Duke has inclosed and subdivided, partly by ditch
and hedge, and partly by stone fences:  By building the
stone fences, the farmers who were employed in providing
stones, had an opportunity of clearing their grounds of a


