
     Statistical Account

   State of Property.-Having yet no salt-pans, lime-works,
nor mines of coal or metals, the property consists of lands,
woods, and salmon fishings.  There are stell fishings on the
sea, and cobble fishings on the fresh-water of Findern.  Some
of the fresh-water fishings belong to the parish of Forres..
Such fishings as have been repeatedly assessed with stipends,
I presume, may belong to this parish, and these are, the two
halves of the Long-pool fishings, one belonging to the Dal-
vey estate, in this parish, and the other to a landholder of
Forres parish, who ahs no property but fishings here.  Two-
eight parts of the Nether Water, i. e. two-eights belonging
to Dalvey, and two-eights of the same beloning to Birds-
yards, who has no lands in this parish; (the remaining four-
eights of the Nether Water beloning, as I presume, to
the parish of Forres.  All the fresh-water fishings, as deri-
ved, at some period, from the Abbots of Kinlofs, and inde-
pendent of the adjacent lands, have right to draw nets indif-
ferently on either side.  The stell fishings specially men-
tioned in the decreets of the ministers of Dyke, are, Eth
stell, Elven stell, the Sheriff's stell, and the Easter and We-
ster stells of Culbin.

   Number of Proprietors, Resident and Non-resident.-The
number of proprietors, in the last century, were at least 12
or upwards.  For 50 years back, the greater part of the pro-
perties have been rather sluctuating.  The proprietors, in
1793, are but five; four landholders, whereof two have fish-
ings in the parish, two have no fishings in it, and one has
fishings without lands.
   The resident proprietors are, James Brodie, Esq; of Bro-
die, and Hugh Grant, Esq; of Moy.  The Earl of Moray
retains a family of servants at Darnaway, where he occupies
the Mains, and keeps his castle in repair, for the sake of a
short residence when his occasions call him to the north.


