
     of Monifieth.

would be thought beneficial to the salmon fishing, is a me-
thod could be invented, by which the porpoises, or Gair
fish as they are called, which devour so many salmon,
might be destroyed.  But it is to be considered, that the
fear of the porpoises forces the salmon nearer to land than
they would otherwise be willing to come.  If the porpoi-
ses were destroyed, the salmon would be safer; but the
fisher would catch less in his net.
   About 10 years ago, the white fishing on this coast be-
gan to decline.  Soon after, the haddocks, which were
caught in the greatest abundance, totally left the coast.
While they remained, they chiefly had given constant em-
ployment to 3 large boats belonging to this parish, which
earned annually, at an average, L. 100 each.  The 3 boats
are still retained, and frequent their old fishing grounds;
but as they seldom catch any other kinds of fish that some
cod and ling, or when any other kinds chance to be
caught, as it is in small quantity, they afford a very scanty
and precarious subsistence.  Whether the haddocks were
banished by lack of proper food, or pursued by some vo-
racious enemy, it is the less important to inquire; as they
have now begun, in small quantities, to revisit our coasts.
A few small shell fish might be found within the bounds
of this parish, if one were at pains to gather them.  Lob-
sters and crabs are caught in their greatest perfection on
this coast, in the parishes of Panbrideand St Vigeans.

   Manufactures.-There is little in this parish which de-
serves the name of manufacture.  There are only 38 wea-
vers, who, as they at one time weave osnaburghs, and at
another time household cloth, and are scattered over the
parish, the quantity of cloth which they weave cannot ea-
sily be ascertained.  But it must be very inconsiderable,
as several of them occupy a few acres of land, which re-


