
		PARISH OF RATHVEN.

     PRESBYTERY OF FORDYCE, SYNOD OF ABERDEEN.
     
	THE REV. JAMES GARDINER, MINISTER.


     I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
  Name, &c.-"RATHVEN." according to the writer of the last
Statistical report of this parish, "is said, by those conversant in
the Gaelic language, to be derived from two original words, the
one signifying 'brake' or 'fern,' and the other 'rock, eminence,
or hillock.'" In support of this derivation he adds, "that there
is a spot in the neighbourhood of the church called Brakenhaugh,
and a farm named Rannachie, i. e. the Brakenfield." This, how-
ever, is quite an erroneous derivation of the name. The spelling
of the term in Gaelic is "Bath-bheann," or "beann,"-the for-
mer meaning a "circle of stones," and the latter "a hill" or
"mountain." That this, therefore, is the true etymology of the
name, we have only, in order to satisfy ourselves, to look to the
Benhill, which overhangs that part of the parish situated towards
the south, and examine the numerous cairns found in various
parts of it, especially on the Bauds, which shall be duly noticed
under the head Antiquities.
  Extent and Boundaries.-This parish is situated in the district
of the county named Enzie. It extends along the coast, from east
to West, 10 miles, and nearly 5 in breadth; and is bounded on the
north, by the Moray Frith; on the east and south east, by the
parishes of Cullen and Deskford; on the south, by Deakford and
Keith; and on the west, by Bellie. It contains 27,000 Scotch
acres, or 33,750 imperial, and 421/5 square miles. Annual value
of the real property in the parish, as assessed in 1815, L.7836.
  Topographical Appearances.-Its figure is rather irregular, but
approaches nearer to the form of a parallelogram than any other,
though the square diminishes considerably towards the east. There
is an extensive range of hills stretching from the Benhill on the


