
     of Arngask.

are two or three moors, mostly covered with heath; and
there is very little meadow ground in the parish.  The
arable ground is let at more than 20 s. an acre.  It is not
many years since the practice of inclosing began here; and it
is only a few years since grass was sown.  Seed time, if the
season answers, begins in March or April, and harvest in Sep-
tember and October.  The parish supplies itself with the ne-
cessaries of life; and sends to market corn, butter, cheese,
fowls, cattle, and some sheep.

   Air, and Distempers.-The air is pure and wholesome.  The
inhabitants are not oppressed with excessive hear in summer
nor do they suffer intense cold in winter, as the hoar frost is
less frequent and severe than in low places.  The most com-
mon distempers are colds, which in several instances termi-
nate in consumptions.  The scurvy is likewise a common dis-
order, which originates, as is supposed, from the frequent use
of oat meal:  Agues were frequent some years ago; but there
has not been a single person afflicted with that disease since
1783.

   Population.-For a long time past, the population of this
parish seems to have been nearly the same.

<TABLE>

Return of the inhabitants to Dr Webster                 736
Inhabitants, anno 1790                                  554
Annual average of births from 1783 is nearly             16
               of deaths exactly                         14
               of marriages within the parish, during   
  the same period, nearly                                 3
The number of persons under 10 years of age is          127
Between 10 and 20                                       120
Between 20 and 50                                       229

</TABLE>


