
     XVI History of the Origin and Progress of the

lication, should be given to the Society instituted
for the benefit of the Sons of the Clergy.  It ac-
cidentally also occurred to me, that it would be
possible to procure a Royal Grant for the same be-
nevolent purpose; and having, with that view, ap-
plied to Mr Secretary DUNDAS, his Majesty, in
consequence of his recommendation, was graci-
ously pleased to grant L. 2000 to that Society; I
availed myself of that opportunity, to make a third
application to the deficient Clergy, (see Appendix,
D), which I flattered myself would have been ve-
ry generally successful.
   EXPERIENCE, however, soon proved, that altho'
considerable progress might thus be made, yet that
it was impossible to expect, without still greater
exertions, the unanimous assistance of so numerous
a body as the Clergy of Scotland.  Many circum-
stances prevented unanimity on such an occasion.
Some disliked the scheme from the beginning, or,
having rashly given an opinion against it, before
they had thoroughly understood its nature or ob-
ject, were ashamed afterwards to retract.  Some
were prevented by old age and bodily infirmities,
some owing to family distress, and some by the
jealousy of their parishioners, who thought that
the whole was a deep laid scheme, set on foot by
Government, with a view to taxation; whilst the
tenants, in many country parishes, did not much
relish the inquiries which were made into the pro-
duce of the soil, the value of their cattle, &c. ap-


