
56                       ARGYLESHIRE.

extent; and husbandry is practised according to the most approved
rules. There are only three farmers in the parish who enjoy
leases; and this fact, coupled with want of capital on the part of
the great mass of the tenantry, will go far to account for the
neglected state of considerable tracts susceptible of high im-
provement.
  In about half-a-dozen farms, the buildings are commodious and
substantial; in the remainder very inferior.
  The farming implements are good. Iron ploughs were intro-
duced some years ago, and are now in pretty general use. A cart
costs about L.6; an iron plough, L.4, 10s.; a wooden plough, L.2.
There are two corn-mills and one thrashing-mill in the parish.
The former are moved by water; the latter is wrought by horses.
  The common breed of cattle is the West Highland. A few
low country cows are kept for milk by the upper classes. Black-
faced sheep are those most generally kept. There are also a few
Leicester and Cheviot sheep. Much attention is paid to the breed
of horses, and those now used are larger and more powerful than
those employed about thirty years ago,
  Improvements.--The principal recent improvements have been
effected on the farms of Barbreck, Dail, Castle Craignish, Ard-
larach, and Kilbride. These consist chiefly of draining, subdi-
viding, enclosing, and planting. Improvements of this description
are now going on to a great extent on the farms of Castle Craig-
nish and Aird.
   Produce.--The average gross amount and value of raw producer
raised in the parish, as nearly as can be ascertained, are,

<TABLE>
     Oats, imperial bushel, 11,750 at 2s.9d. per bushel, L.1615 12  6
     Bear,        do.       2203 at 3s. 6d.       do.       385 10  6
     Flax, 512 lbs. at 1s per lb.        -      -            25 12  0
     Potatoes, 2784 bolls at 8s. per boll, -     -         1113 12  0
     Turnips, 13 acres at L.6 per acre,          -           78  0  0
     Cultivated hay, 10,000 stones at 10d. per stone,  -    416 13  4
     Meadow hay, 11,610 stones at 7d. per stone,    -       338 12  6
     Fisheries,      -        -          -          -       200  0  0
     Peats, 4800 carts at 1s. per cart,    -        -       240  0  0
     Sales of live-stock,  -        -        -             2270  0  0
     Dairy produce,        -           -       -       -    700  0  0
     Miscellaneous,             -         -       -          74  0  0

         Total yearly value of raw produce,       -      L.7457 12 10

   The yearly grazing of a cow or full-grown ox is L.2; and of a
sheep or ewe, 3s.
   The valued rent of the parish in Scots money is L.2197, 17s.


