
90 	                    DUMFRIES-SHIRE.

mities permit, they would much rather support themselves by their
own exertions.
	Fuel, &c.--The high grounds afford an inexhaustible supply of
peat. This substance requiring much time and labour, and like-
wise a dry season to prepare it for domestic purposes, has in a
great measure been superseded by coal. The nearest coal field is
that of Sanquhar, at the distance of 14 miles. Excellent San-
quhar coal can be purchased at 11s. per ton, carriage included.
Mansfield coal, in Ayrshire, at the distance of 25 miles, and not
inferior in quality to any in Scotland, is also much used, and can
be procured at 13s. per ton, carriage included. English coal, ship-
borne, can be purchased at 21s. per ton. The extensive woods
furnish the poor with a pretty regular supply of fuel. It is now a
prevalent opinion that peat is more expensive than coal.

		         MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.

	When the former Statistical Account was written, the number of
arable acres was about 2400, and the rental of the parish L. 3500.
There were very few enclosures, and the farm-houses and offices
were miserable hovels. At present the number of arable acres is
9000, all well enclosed; the rental is above L. 12,000; and the
farm-houses and offices substantially built, and neatly finished.
Closeburn, which half a century ago was one of the bleakest and
most uncultivated, is now one of the most improved, beautiful, and
richly wooded parishes in the south of Scotland.

	January 1834.


