
     		     BANCHORY-TERNAN.                       349

<TABLE>
            In 1755 (according to Dr Webster,) it was 1736
            In 1766, (Garden's Map,)                  1980
            In 1791, (Old Statistical,)               1340
            In 1801,                                  1322
            In 1811,                                  1559
            In 1821,                                  1729
            In 1831,                                  1972
            In 1841,                                  2240

	Making due allowance for some inaccuracy in the first three of
these statements, the population would still appear to have been
remarkably great here at the beginning of the last century, espe-
cially when it is considered that not more than one-third of the
present arable land was then in cultivation, and its productive
powers perhaps scarcely one-half. Almost all the grain raised war,
consumed at home. Even in 1758 there were but two carts in the
whole parish. From 1650 to 1709, meal cost L.4 to L.10 Scots
per boll; an ox, 12 merks; a sheep, 5 merks. Retainers, sub-
tenants, and the occupiers of sm`ll patches of land are known to
have been very numerous. The salmon of the Dee was plentiful,
and constituted a considerable part of the sustenance of the la-
bouring classes, who were, however, in some instances, in a
wretchedly poor condition as respects the comforts and conveni-
ences of life. The decrease between 1766 and 1791 is said to
"have been owing to the emigration of the work people to the
manufactories at Aberdeen; to some of the heritors taking large
farms under their own management; to some of the farmers not
choosing to have subtenants; and to a very uncommon mortality
which prevailed in the winter of 1789." (Old Stat.) During this
period a whole hamlet disappeared, in the northern part of the
parish alone. The number of oxen employed in tillage fell to
one-half; and the greatest part of about 150 acres, still bearing
the marks of former cultivation, then become waste. The sub-
sequent increase since 1801 beyond the common rate of aug-
mentation, arises chiefly from the greater number of labourers
drawn together by the spirited and constant improvements of the
landlords; from the greater extent of surface brought into culti-
vation, affording many possessions entirely new; from the greater
number of farm-servants thereby rendered necessary; from an in-
crease of resident capitalists; and from the formation of a flourish-
ing village.
	The average number of births, for, the last ten years, as already
stated, was 50; of these, 5 were illegitimate. The average num-
ber of marriages, from 1831 to 1836, was 16, and of funerals, 43
nearly. In 1838, there were 5 still-born. In 1841, 380 persons


