
     Of Peebles.

tithes of both parishes, then worth 6000 merks yearly.  The 
vicar in Peebles had the glebe of 80 acres, still called the Kirk-
lands, though at the Reformation very little of these lands 
were left to the church, together with the vicarage-tithes, 
part of which is given by the patron of the parish to the mas-
ter of the grammar-school.  At the Reformation, and after- 
ward, when the lands and revenues of the church were to have 
reserved a proper portion of these lands for the constant sup-
port of the parochial clergy, a smaller part of it to be occu-
pied by themselves, and the rest to be let by them for their 
use.  This would have been a better provision for the esta-
blished clergy, than either the ipsa corpora tithes, which are 
often a check to agricultural improvements, and a bone of 
contention between the pastor and people, or stipends modified 
out of these tithes, which decrease in value as the expense of 
living increases.  The small legal glebe of 4 acres of arable 
land, when ploughed by the parishioners, as was formerly the 
case, might be some advantage to the minister.  Now, when 
he must keep two horses and a servant to cultivate it, it is a 
loss, in place of a gain.  Whereas, if every minister in the 
Church of Scotland, having a country parish, had been pro-
vided in a glebe of 20 or 30 acres, he would, without either 
loss to himself, or avocation from the sacred duties of his of-
fice, have directed the proper culture of it, and generally 
would have set an example of improvement in every parish, 
which would have been followed, and proved of great and ge-
neral advantage to the country. 

   Vol. XII. C -

