
     Statistical Account

   Poor.-There are no begging poor that belong to this pa-
rish; although, lying along so many highways, the place is
exceedingly pestered with beggars and vagrants, from the
Highlands and more northern districts; as well as with sorners
and supplicants from the south, many of whom are great im-
postors.  It is much to be wished, that some regulations were
set on foot for rendering such persons better members of so-
ciety; or at least restraining them from becoming such bur-
dens on the public, and intercepting, and often extorting, by
threats and force, what might be very properly bestowed up-
on real objects of charity.  There are several indigent and
infirm persons belonging to the parish, who receive supplies
occasionally, as well as at three stated terms, Whitsunday,
Martinmas, and when the sacrament is dispensed.  The week-
ly collections in the church, and at the sacraments, and the
dues of the mort-cloth, are the only poor's funds here.  But
they cannot be expected to be very considerable in a small pa-
rish, where there are no residing heritors, nor gentry who at-
tend public worship; or, so far as the incumbent knows, be-
stow any thing for the support of the parochial poor.  Such
poor as live in and about the more populous villages, are sup-
plied, by their beneficent neighbours, with some little neces-
saries, which they could not otherwise procure; such as milk,
whey, turnips, potatoes, fuel, etc.  When it is known, that
any old or infirm person is in want, it is customary for the
young lads of that corner, to go out in an evening through
the parish, and to ask meal, or a little money, which the
people very cheerfully give; and it proves a most seasonable
supply to several, who would be in hazard of suffering want,
rather than seem to be importunate, or burdensome.

   Character.-All the residing inhabitants are of the Esta-
blished Church, excepting one Roman Catholic, whose wife


