
     of Crailing.

   highest perfection.  The plowmen of this parish, have, at no
competition, been excelled in the neatness of their work; and
the farmers are remarkable for keeping capital horses, and e-
quipping them to the best advantage.  No fight can be more
delightful, to one who is fond of a country life, than to sur-
vey the rcih haughs of Crailing, and the fields of Nisbet, in a
fine morning, during the best sesons, for the toils of agricul-
ture.

   Crops.-This parish produces a great proportion of wheat,
besides all the other kinds of grain of the best quality.  The
culture of turnips is much attended to, and with great success.
They are generally eaten by sheep on the fields.  The sheep are
inclosed by nets, made for the purpose; by means of which,
400 or 500 are confined within the bounds of 4 or 5 English
acres at a time, till the turnips are all consumed.  The ground
being well prepared for the turnips, and thoroughly cleaned
while the crop is upon it, the necessity of summer fallowing
is precluded, and is, therefore, seldom practised in this parish.
The sheep leave the groound richly manured, and wheat is ge-
nerally fown upon fields thus prepared, any time before Christ-
mas.  There are, upon an average, about 220 acres of turnip
annually consumed in this parish, by sheep from neighbouring
parishes, and from the English border, which are thereby tho-
roughly fed for the market, to the number of about 2200, al-
lowing 10 sheep to an acre.  Such turnips, as are not consum-
ed in this way, (which are not a few,) are given, by the far-
mers, to their young flcok, both of cattle and sheep.  The
turnips, that are late of being confused, are succeeded by a
crop of barley, which is frequently accompanied with grass-
feeds.  The crops of this parish, and of Ercford to the east,
are generally more early, than even those of the Lothians.


