
     Statistical Account

of their farms to great advantage, and at small expence.  A
considerable part of their grain is bought by agents for
the corn-merchants in Leith, Edinburgh, and Glasgow, and
carried to the port of North Berwick, and from thence con-
veyed in shipping to different parts of Scotland.  The num-
ber of ploughs in the parish, according to the statute work,
is 47 1/4.  The English plough is chiefly used, and drawn by
two horses.  There are in the parish about 50 two horse,
and 6 one horse carts, and 1 coach.  Besides the horses used
in agriculture, etc. there are some kept solely for riding,
and, of late, owing to the high prices of horses, the farmers
have begun to rear young ones, partly for sale, but chiefly
for the support of their own stock.  The whole number of
horses, young and old, is from 150 to 160; they are of an
excellent kind, not large, but very active and fit to do a
great deal of work.  The number of milch cows is about
160.  The rest of the black cattle exceeds that number con-
siderably, and varies in different seasons.  There is often a
great number of Highland stots, over and above the black
cattle reared by themselves, kept by the farmers in their
straw-yards through the winter, and fed off in summer in
grass parks, which they take annually for that and other
purposes.  Of late years, there have been, from 35 to 40
scores of sheep in the parish a greater number than formerly,
a larger proportion of land having been in grass.

   Population.-The population of this parish has, upon the
whole, decreased within these 14 years past.  This is owing
to the same general causes chat have operated in other parts
of the country, the monopolizing of farms, the introduction
of two horse ploughs, and a greater proportion of lands be-
ing kept in grass.  Upon the three farms formerly mention-
ed, possessed by farmers who do not reside on them, the de-


