
     of Collington.

   Deaths.-The register of burials in this parish has been
very carefully kept since the year 1728; distinguishing the
death of children and of adults, of strangers and of pa-
rishioners.
   From the above register of burials for 49 years it ap-
pears.
   1.  That the burials were 944; during the last 10 years,
175.  In the former period the births had been 1696: in
the latter, 394.  In both cases, the births compared to the
deaths approach to the proportion of 2 to 1, forming a very
striking account of the increase of the people in this part
of the country.
   2.  That the number of strangers from other parishes
buried here amounts, at an average, to 6 persons annually,
which is considerably more than the number of parishioners
buried in other places.

   3.  That of the 944 persons buried, 452, or nearly one
half, were children under 14 years of age.
   4.  That there are about 20 deaths annually; and above
60, perhaps 69, inhabitants for each annual death.
   5.  That in this, as in all other registers of deaths, there
are years most remarkable for their health, and others for
their mortality.  In some cases, the causes of this great
difference are to be observed, but in others they cannot be
discerned.
   6.  That near 70 years ago, and even about 50 and 40
years ago, the number of deaths was greater than at pre-
sent, though the number of people was certainly less.  The
lower ranks, which form the body of the people, are now
lodged, clothed, and fed, in a manner more friendly to
health than in these former times.

   Diseases.-There are no local distempers, nor any pecu-
liar appearance in any disease, observable in this parish.


