
     Statistical Account

pril, or beginning of May, they migrate to Norway, where
their young are hatched.  The ember goose, as it is here cal-
led, is a bird larger than the tame goose; has a long bill, and
doleful cry; it seldom leaves the sea-its legs are so short,
that it can hardly walk.  Of ducks there are various species,
which resort to the lochs above mentioned.  Besides the wild
duck, are scale-drakes, equal to the wild duck in size; the
points of their bills turn up a little; they are of a beautiful
brown colour, and hatch their young in rabbit-holes.  There
is a large species called the stock-duck, and smaller species
called teales and attiles.  Sea birds of various kinds abound,
several species of which become white in winter.  There are
also here in their season, the lapwing, the grey and yellow
plover, and the night-rail.

   Fish.-The lakes already mentioned produce considerable
quantities of trouts of a large size, which resemble grilses or
young salmon, and abundance of large eels.  At sea, the fishes
most usually caught are ling, cod, tusk, and seth; these last
are taken in the tide-ways, and chiefly at the southern extre-
mity of the parish; few of these are sold in Zetland, either
fresh or dry salted; they are sent to Hamburgh or Leith, or
where the best markets can be found.  For the use of the
inhabitants, the fishers take abundance of turbot, skate, small
cod, haddocks, whitings, herrings, mackarels, flounders, etc.
particularly in the spring season.  The fish, butter, and oil,
sent to the Hamburgh market, yield a return to Zetland of
wines, spirits, tea, coffee, sugar, tobacco, linen, books, lines,
etc.  The rocks on the coast produce abundance of lobsters,
crabs, oysters, etc.

   Population.-In the three united parishes, in 1755, the
number of families was 451; of souls, according to Dr Web-


