
     of Carnock.

estimated at about 31. a-year; and the perquisites paid for
proclamations of marriages, and registration of baptisms, will
amount to 2 guineas more; besides which, he receives a small
annuity of 5 merks Scotch, (or 5s. 6 8/12 d. Sterling), from a
donation bequeathed to the kirk-fession on of Carnock, by the
Reverend Principal Row, who, being a native of this parish,
left this as a small testimony of his regard for the place of his
birth.  The schoolmaster's whole income may be calculated
to amount to 15 L. 6 s. 8 d. Sterling; a rum by far too small,
in the present expensive age, to compensate any man of let-
ters and genius, for executing the laborious talk of teaching
youth.

   Poor.-Though the number of poor upon our ordinary list
is at present only 15, yet, upon an average of 10 years, it
appears to have been not less than 18 annually.  To these
there are 6 distributions made in the year, besides occasional
supplies to others, whose necessities, occasioned by temporary
indisposition, or sudden calamities, require charitable aid.
For these purposes, there are 4 quarterly distributions made,
in February, May, August, and November; besides 2 extra-
ordinary meetings, viz. one about the beginning of the year,
and another at one of the occasions of dispensing the Lord's
Supper, as that ordinance is celebrated twice a year in this
parish.  Sometimes, however, that coincides with one of our
quarterly meetings, which is considered by the kirk-fession,
and several of the quotas are increased in proportion.  The
funds for the support of the poor are as follows:

     VOL. XI. 3 Q


