
     Statistical Account

by which the plough is directed.  A well made improved
Scotch plough is also used by the farmers here.  Both in-
struments perform well in the hands of a skilful plough-
man, who takes care to apply them to soils to which they
are adapted.-The Earl of Hopetoun has valuable woods
in this parish, consisting of about 70 Scotch acres.

   Population.-It does not appear that the population of
this parish has either been much increased or diminished
for at least 100 years past.  The return to Dr Webster was
810.  There are at present 193 families, 132 married wo-
men, 398 above 7 years of age, and 141 below 7 years of
age.  The amount of the whole 864, including all secta-
rists.  The annual average of births for 10 years, begin-
ning with 1709, is 26; for 10 years, beginning with 1734,
is 28; and for 10 years, beginning 1775, is 27.  If the
idea were just, 'That the population of any district or
'country may be known with sufficient accuracy, by mul-
'tiplying the births by 26,' the present population of this
parish would be 702, but which is 162 less than it really
is.  Multiplying our births by 32, corresponds with the
state of our population as near as can be.  Multiplying the
births by 26, may perhaps ascertain the population of large
cities and manufacturing towns, which are always unfa-
vourable to the rearing of children; but, in my opinion, it
cannot be applied with exactness, to healthy situations in
the country.  In general, throughout Scotland, it is not a
register of births that is kept by the clerk of the parish,
but a register of baptisms.  On this account, children who
are not baptized (as several are not) are not registered.
Children also, whose parents are unable or unwilling to
pay the dues to the clerk, are generally not registered; so
that from these, and various other circumstances, I am far
from thinking that the register of baptisms in Scotland is


