
     Statistical Account

S. E. there is a rich and deep clay and loam; and upon the S.
W. there are 1000 acres of fast and whinny pasture, in some
places light and sandy, but mostly arable, and considered as
capable of being improved by tillage, to advantage.  The soil
in general is fertile, and produces wheat, barley, oats, pota-
toes, beans, peas, turnips, rye and clover seeds.  There may
be annually in the parish

<TABLE>

          Under wheat,                            133 acres
                Barley,                           140
                Oats,                             600
                Beans, peas, turnips, and pota-
                  toes,                           150
                                                 -----
                                                 1023

</TABLE>

   Exports.-The crops are more than sufficient to supply the
inhabitants.  Wheat is generally carried to Dumfries.  A
considerable quantity of barley, oats, and potatoes: is export-
ed to the Whitehaven, Lancaster, and Liverpool markets, and
frequently to the ports of Clyde.  Potatoes were first export-
ed from this, in any considerable quantity, in December 1774,
by the late Peter Greggan, tenant in the farm of Kirkhouse.
For several years since, a quantity has been raised, equal in
value to the whole rental of the parish about 40 years ago.

   Black Cattle and Horses.-The cattle are generally of the
Galloway breed, and when fattened for the butcher, or for the
South of England, they weigh well for their size.  It is cer-
tain, however, that the parish is capable of feeding in pro-
portion, cattle of a larger kind.  This has been proved by
WILLIAM CRAIK, Esq; of Arbigland, who made the experi-
ment; whilst a considerable part of his estate was kept in
pasture, he introduced the Bakewell breed, and found that


