
     Statistical Account

schoolmistresses have each of them 5 l. Sterling from the So-
ciety annually.

   Poor.-The average number of poor receiving alms in this
parish, and the adjacent parts of the parishes of Kenmore
and Weem, is about 80.  The annual fund for their relief
is about 30 l. produced by the collections in church upon
Sundays, mort-cloth dues, fines on delinquents, and the in-
terest of a small sum appropriated for their use.  About 10
of these are confined to bed, who receive the greatest part
of their subsistence from the charity of their neighbours in
more fluent circumstances.  Here it is but doing justice to
the inhabitants to observe, that they are, in general, remark-
ably charitable The noble family of Breadalbane, in parti-
cular, deserve much praise.  For many years past, they have
been in the use of giving meal annually to the poor of the
parishes of Killin and Kenmore, to the amount of above 100
bolls.  A great number of beggars from the neighbouring
counties insest the parish, particularly in the summer and
harvest months, many of whom are neither needful nor de-
serving of charity.
   Population.-By a late survey, there are at present 2360,
souls in the parish, 1135 of whom are males, and 1225 fe-
males.  Among these are 36 weavers, 22 taylors, 19 shoe-
makers, 14 wrights, 9 flaxdressers, 7 merchants, 6 smiths,
and 2 bakers.  There are 1136 inhabitants in the adjacent
parts of the parishes of Kenmore and Weem.  It might be
apprehended that this parish has been greatly depopulated
within these 60 years, by the union of farms, and the num-
ber of sheep introduced into it; and it must be admitted,
that, owing to these causes, the number of the people has
decreased considerably in the higher parts of the parish with-


