
     Statistical Account

stable and in the field;-they often want food in sufficient
quantity, and they are exposed to heavy rains after being
warmed with riding or with work;-the houses in which
they stand are commonly dirty, and no attention is ever paid
to cleaning the skin of that most useful animal.  Great num-
bers of them are kept on every farm, more it would appear
than are necessary, and as they bring when in their prime
about 5 l. Sterling one with another, and many of them die
before they are old, the expence of labouring with them must
be considerable.  This has induced some gentlemen to turn
their attention of late to the rearing and using of oxen; and
these animals which here answer very well, have now become
pretty numerous.  They are much less liable to disease than
horses; their original price is not above one half of that of
the other; they can be fed fully as cheap; and when through
old age they become unfit for service, they will bring as much
money as they at first cost from the butchers in Kirkwall and
Stromness.  The cows of this place are also small, but well
formed, and they give milk of a good kind, and in sufficient
quantity, which considering the great numbers of them which
are every where kept, and the small quantity and coarse kind
of food they have, is really surprising.  The ordinary size of
country cows when about 6 years of age, sell at present for
about 40 s. or 45 s. and this price is more than double of
what the same cows would have brought 20 years ago.

   Animals.-The sheep though very numerous, there being
supposed to be in the whole islands about 50,000, turn to
little account, as their is so little care taken of them, that
they are allowed to run wild in the hills, which are almost
all of them commonties.  Here these innocent and defence-
less animals, with their ears cut into a thousand different
forms, to mark out the persons to whom they belong, roam


