
     Statistical Account

third of the parish.  There are also some others who possess
pretty good estates; of whom, some reside.

   Agriculture, &c.-The method of farming is a good deal
improved within these 20 years.  Before that period, farmers
thought they could not plough enough, even though they
had but too frequently, very poor returns for their work and
expense.  But they have seen their mistake.  And every in-
telligent farmer now among us, seldom thinks of opening his
ground, till it has rested 4, and sometimes 6 years, and even
then, to enrich it with dung or lime.  Tenants, in general,
are bound, and they look on it as no hardship, to have no
more than a third of their ground in tillage.  Their outfield
land, which, in general, is well limed (to the extent of 160
bolls an acre, and sometimes more, each boll containing 5
Winchester bushels) commonly produces 2 crops of oats, with
a crop of rye-grass succeeding, and is afterward turned to
pasture.  The infield land or crofting, is that on which they
lay most of the dung they make from their own cattle (for
dung is not to he bought) and raise 3 crops from it, bear,
oats, and beans, and then return to dunging again.  As bear
is a very uncertain crop, both by reason of the bulk of the
land being inclined to clay, and a wet bottom, and also to
the great quantity of rain that generally falls, about the end
of summer, and the beginning of harvest, this being the case,
many farmers have adopted another method, and, I believe,
much to their advantage, viz. of laying their dung upon their
outfield or poorest ground, allowing 2 acres about the same
quantity of dung, they would have given to 1 acre of bear,
and taking 2 crops of oats, and sometimes 1 of rye-grass hay;
and in this way, their future grazing crops on such land, are
much improved, and the whole farm in process of time, is
brought into a state of improvement.  And, as many are fall-


