
     of Dallas

ments of husbandry, and for building farm-houses:  Fuel for
their families, and minds strangers to luxury and extrava-
gance.  The cart-load of peats on the street brings only
from 8 d. to 10 d. in summer, and from 10 d. to 14 d. in
winter.  They are of an excellent quality, but the load is
small.  These bring always ready money, and enable the
people to buy the familly necessaries when required, and to
pay the landlord at the term.
   The English language us spoken throughout the parish;
yet, as in the case in many other places, the names of the
farms appear to be of Celtic derivation.
   The inhabitants are much inclined to industry and fruga-
lity.  They are also disposed to acts of humanity.  A good
many weavers are constantly employed in making coarse
cloth, commonly called plaiden, from the produce of their
sheep, which, in the summer markets, is sold for from 9 d.
to 1 s. the Scots ell. By that, and other sources of industry,
they are enabled to support their families and pay their
rents.  There are some cart and cart-wheel wrights, with
some carpenters for making flakes or paling for solding
cattle in summer, and inclosing fields.
   Their dress and manners are considerably improved with-
in these few years,  It is thought, and earnesty to be wish-
ed, that their condition may be meliorated.  This, it is
believed, might be done, by introducing and encouraging a
stocking manufactory, or some such useful accommoda-
ting employment, especially to occupy the young.
   Last summer a petition was transmitted from the inhabi-
tants of Kellas to the Honourable Society at Edinburgh,
requesting a Society School for that quarter.  These fami-
lies lie at a great distance from the parochial school.  Ac-
cordingly, a school was appointed to be settled there,


