
     Statistical Account of the

num, payable out of the bishop's rents of Aberdeen and Mo-
ray; two thirds whereof were assigned to the College of Old
Aberdeen, to enable them to repair their ruinous buildings,
and one third to the Marischal College.  Of this money,
certain specified sums are appointed for the augmentation of
salaries, and for establishing two bursaries in divinity; and
the remainder, for the payment of debts, and other public
purposes of the University.  These bursars are chosen in the
following manner: Upon a vacancy, the Principals and pro-
fessors of both Colleges meet together, and make up a list of
three candidates, who have passed through their course of
philosophy, and received the degree of A. M. at either Col-
lege.  This list is transmitted to the Barons of Exchequer,
who nominate one of the three to be King's bursar in theo-
logy; and upon producing his presentation, he is admitted
to the enjoyment of his bursary, which continues for four
years, and is ten pounds per annum.  The College also re-
ceives annually one hundred and five pounds sterling, under
the name of royal bounty, by virtue of a grant from Queen
Ann, which has been since renewed at the commencement of
every reign, payable out of the civil establishment of Scot-
land, and appointed to be applied towards augmenting the
salaries of the professors.  Yet, notwithstanding this allow-
ance, and that from the bishop's rents, together with the
rents of the original College property, and those arising
from Sir Thomas Crombic's mortification, none of the sala-
ries exceed eighty pounds per annum, excepting those of the
Principal, and professor of mathematics, which are upwards
of one hundred pounds.  The precise amount of any of them
cannot be exactly stated, being subject to small variations,
arising from the high or low prices of grain, and other
causes.


