
     of Arbirlot.

water edge, though in a half ruined state, a very beautiful
and delightful romantic scene is formed, which is to be seen
to great advantage on the road betwixt Arbroath and Arbir-
lot.  The Elliot is not only an object of beauty, but of uti-
lity.  There are 5 mills upon it; one for cleaning flax an-
other for dressing yarn, and 3 for grinding corn.  A few
years ago, the greatest part of this parish was under thirlage
to some of the corn mills in the neigbourhood, and payed
a very high multure.  But the present tenants, desirous of
obtaining freedom from this thraldom, agreed among them-
selves to pay the rents of the several mills to which they
were thirled; and the late factor or steward on the estate of
Panmure accepted of their proposal; in consequence whereof,
they can carry their corn to any mill they please.

   Heritor and Rent.-The whole parish of Arbirlot, at pre-
sent, is the property of the Hon. William Maule, brother of
the Earl of Dalhouse, by a deed of the late William Maule,
Earl Panmure.  The valued rent is 4266 l. 13 s. 4 d. Scotch.
The real rent is 22 bolls 2 pecks wheat, 454 bolls bear, 519
bolls 8 pecks meal, and 935 l. 11 s. 5 d. Sterling.  The rent
paid by the tenants varies from 5 s. to 30 s. per acre.  But
ground, in proper culture for flax, is frequently let for one
crop, by the farmer, at 5 guineas the acre.  There are in-
stances of individuals renting lands, formerly possessed by
several tenants, and of removing those people known by the
name of cottagers; but whether this has turned out to the
advantage or disadvantage of the farmer, is doubtful.

   Church.-The living consists of 57 bolls 4 pecks meal,
Linhthgow measure, 44 bolls bear, 10 bolls 12 peacks wheat,
and 16 l. 6 s. 11 3/4 d. in money, with the addition of a manse,
a garden, and a glebe of 4 acres.  The value of the living,

     VOL. III. 3 0


