
     Statistical Account

proper direction and encouragement, might be employed in
manufactures, with advantage to themselves and to the coun-
try.  Too numerous for the necessary purposes of agriculture,
they have, at present, no other object before them, to occupy
their attention, or to excite their industry.  Their stature is
rather above the middle size.  They are altogether unacquaint-
ed with the sea-faring life, nor do they discover any great ar-
dour for the army, yet, when they do enter that service, they
prove excellent soldiers.  The sencible corps raised at dif-
ferent periods, in this country, furnished opportunities for as-
certaining this fact.  Every place where they have been
quartered, will bear testimony to their good behaviour.  They
have approved themselves to be regular steady men, patient of
discipline and subordination; sober and exemplary in their
conduct, as soldiers and as men.

   Proposed Improvements.-These may be comprehended un-
der a few heads, viz.-the abolition of the partial, oppressive,
and absurd tax on coals;-the granting of proper leases and o-
ther liberal conditions from land-holders;-the introduction of
manufactures,-and the establishment of judicious arrangements
for the employment and support of the poor.  Peats and turf
are carried from so great a distance, as to occupy the time of
those who have horses for the purpose, during a considerable
portion of the summer and autumn.  This proves a ruinous
burthen to the tenants, who are obliged, on that account, to
keep many more horses than the purposes of agriculture re-
quire; and although the making of roads and the use of carts,
might in a good degree alleviate the evil, the remedy would
be but partial, especially with regard to those who are situat-
ed farthest off from the hills.  Of these, such as have few
horses, or none, buy their firing at an extravagant rate from
the others, and sometimes cannot procure it on any terms.  A-


