
     Statistical Account
 
found under cairns of small stones.  These urns were pro-
bably Roman urns, this district being part of a Roman pro-
vince, and within the line of Antoninus's wall, or Graham's
dyke.  Dr Henry, in his History of Britain, observes, that
the ancient nations of South Britain burnt the bodies of the
dead, according to the practice of the antient Gauls, from
whom they were descended; and that this is unquestionably
evident from the great number of urns, of British workman-
ship, which have been found in several places, full of ashes,
and human bones half burnt; and these urns, with their va-
rious contents, were deposited in sepulchres, caves, and bar-
rows or tumuli, according to the prevailing custom of the
country; but, at the bones of men lying at full lenght, with-
out any marks of burning, have been found in some of these
barrows, it appears, that, on some occations, the ancient Bri-
tons of the south, both of Scotland and England, buried their
dead without burning, and that the Catedomans always buried
their dead in deep graves.

   About 20 years ago, when the country people in this pa-
rish were digging for stones to inclose their farms, they met
with several chests or coffins of flag stones, set on their
edges, sides, and ends, and covered with the same sort of
stones above, in which were many human bones of a large
size, and several sculls in some of them.  In one was found
many trinkets of a jet black substance, some round, others
round and oblong, and others of a diamond shape, &c all
persorated.  Probably they were a necklace.  There was a
thin piece, about 2 inches broad at one end, and perforated
with many holes, but narrow at the other; the broad end,
full of holes, seemed to be designed for suspending many
trinkets, as an ornament on the breast.  The ground where
these stone coffins were found was a little raised, with a mix-


