
     of Scone.

booty, spoiled and burnt both the ancient Abbey and Palace*.
The Abbey wall, from the foundations which have been dug
up, is supposed to have inclosed a space of 12 acres.
   "This Abbey, says Spottiswood, was founded by Alexan-
"der the first, 1114, and was dedicated to the Holy Trinity,
"and St. Michael.  It was the place where our kings were
"accustomed to be crowned, and where the fatal marble
"chair, now at Westminster, was usually kept.  It former-
"ly belonged to the Culdees, if we trust George Buchanan,
"and several other authors; and it was erected into a tem-
"poral lordship, in favour of Sir David Murray, a cadet of
"the family of Tullibardine, in the year 1604"+.
   It is uncertain whether the present house of Scone, a seat
of the Earl of Mansfield, stands on any part of the founda-
tions of the former buildings.  Two lines of a Scotch poet,
a native of Perth++, who had every opportunity of informing
himself with regard to this particular, would lead a person
to suppose, that it does.
     As we thus talk'd, our barge did sweetly pass,
     By Scone's, fair Palace, sometime Abbey was.

   It is about a mile due north, from the town of Perth.  It
stands upon a piece of rising ground, about half a mile from
the Tay; and is situated in the midst of an extensive lawn,
which slopes gradually towards the river.
   Round the house, except on the south west, where it is
open, runs a shrubery and young plantation, intersected with
serpentine gravel walks; and intermixed with old trees,

     L 2

<FOOTNOTE>

*Knox's History of the Reformation.

+Spottiswood's History of Religious houses.

++Mr Henry Adamson.-See Cant's History of Perth.


