

scriptive of some relation they bore to the Abbey of this
place; Cowbyre, Balgeirsho, Cottward, Cadam, Soutar-houses,
Drink-still, Market-hill, and Balbrogie.

   Character, etc.-The inhabitants of this district are sober,
frugal, and industrious.  They are hospitable and obliging to
strangers, and charitable to the poor.  In their dealings they
are open, unsuspecting, and sincere.  Their stature is of the
middle size, few exceeding 6 feet high; and their general ap-
pearance indicates strength and vigour.  Their hair is gene-
rally of a darkish hue, though some are to be seen with yellow
or flaxen locks.  In the article of dress, expence and finery
are much more studied than formerly.  Not above 40 years
ago, the broad blue bonnet, with a coat of home manufac-
ture, was universally worn by the men.  The tartan plaid,
applied closely over a head dress of linen, was in use among
the women.  At present, few servant lads are to be seen at
church without their coats of English cloth, hats on their
heads, and watches in their pockets.  At the period just re-
ferred to, a watch, an eight day clock, or a tea kettle, were
scarcely to be met with.  At present, there are few houses
without one or other of these articles; perhaps one half of
the families in the parish are possessed of all of them.

