
     of Collington.

all, 212.  The number of the cows is 127 nearly; and
that of the sheep about 4000.
   There are not above half a dozen breeding swine in the
parish.

   Bees.-There are about 35 winter hives of bees in the
parish, and formerly they were much more numerous.

   Antiquities.-Of the names of places in this parish, there
occurs but one evidently derived from the Gaelic; the rest,
like that of the parish, are almost all of British or Saxon
origin.  On the lands of Comiston there are still the vesti-
ges of a very large and ancient encampment.  Adjacent to
this camp, and near the house of Fairmilehead, an extensive
and important battle had been fought, and two very large
conical cairns erected, on demolishing which, for the pur-
pose of making the turnpike-road, remains of human bones
were found in them, and several fragments of old arms, two
of which are still in the possession of Mr Trotter of Morton-
hall, the proprietor of the ground.  Not far from these
cairns there had likewise been erected an upright pillar
stone, which still remains.  It is a rude massy block of
whinstone, of a flat shape, 7 feet high above the surface of
the ground, and above 4 feet below it.  It is called the Kel
Stane, an old British word signifying the Battle Stone.  It
has also passed immemorially by the name of Camus Stone,
which would seem to intimate its connection with some
Danish commander.

