
     of Closeburn.

   Roads and Bridges.-Considerable improvements have
been made upon the roads in this parish.  The great turn-
pike road in particular, from Dumfries, to Glasgow and
Ayr, which goes through this parish, does much credit to
the judgement of the gentlemen who marked out the direc-
tion of it.  Upon this road, there is a comfortable inn at
Brownhill, in this parish, which divides the way pretty
equally between Dumfries and Sanquhar, and at which
travellers may expect to be treated with every civility.
The parish is also well supplied with bridges over every
little brook; where a bridge is at all needed, an arch is
thrown, and the communication of one part of the parish
with another, by this means, rendered easy at all times.

   Character of the People.-In so populous a parish, it is
impossible but that there must now and then be a few dif-
orderly persons.  But it would be very unfair to judge of
the general character of the people from the conduct of a
few individuals, or from a few irregularities committed in
the intemperate use of whisky.  Within the memory of
man, no inhabitant of this parish has ever been guilty of
suicide; none has ever suffered death by the hand of the
executioner; none has ever been banished from his coun-
try; none has ever been so much as tried for murder,
theft, or any capital crime.  They are upon the whole a
quiet, sober, honest, and industrious people.  The farmers
in particular are a very decent set of men, attentive to
their business, just in their dealings, civil and obliging in
their manners.


