
     of Stevenston.

some bales of the Paisley silk and cotton manufactures; which
go that way to Ireland.  A considerable quantity of oats
from the parish, is carried in boats every Spring to Arran
and Kintyre for feed.

   There is annually imported a cargo of hemp from Peters-
burgh;
   A cargo of iron from Gottenburgh;
   Three cargoes of sir timber from Memel; and
   As much ship timber from Wales as is needed.

   The average of oats, oatmeal, and barley, for three years
preceding January last, imported chiefly from Galloway,
above 2000 bolls annually.  From January to May 1791,
imported about 3000 bolls.  The Ayrshire boll is exactly
the English quarter.  A little linen yarn, and some trifles
of provision from Ireland, are all the other imports recol-
lected.

   During the Summers 1788, 1789, 1790, three vessels, of
about 100 tons each, were annually employed, in the New-
foundland fishery.  They were very successful on the Banks,
in getting as many fish as they could carry; but from some
circumstances and accidents, the rules of their cargoes did
not answer expectation, so that the adventurers have drop-
ped this business at present.

   For a considerable time backwards, Saltcoats vessels have
been employed in the West herring fishery, to the number
of 12 or 13 annually.  This business is also on the decline,
as there are now only about eight, and these have been un-
successful for the last three years.  The busses from Camp-
belton and Rosa, have done better than the Saltcoats ones.


