
     of Benholme.

winter, it became necessary for them to quit their native
place, where their property could not be protected, and to
take up their residence where ships might be secure in all
seasons.  Owing to this cause, 15 matters of vessels from 50
to 150 tons burden, with their families, have removed to
Montrose since the year 1766.  An equal number of vessels,
about the same burthen, still belong to Johnshaven, which
cannot be brought there with safety during winter.  The
masters of these have hitherto struggled with the inconve-
nience of having their families in one place, and their pro-
perty in another, nearly one half of the year; but it is more
than probable, that they will follow the example of their
neighbours, unless some material improvement is made upon
the harbour.

   Pier and Proposed Improvement.-A small pier or wharf has
been erected of late, by means of which vessels may load and
unload at any time of the tide, in favourable weather; but
till a bulwark is raised to break the force of the sea, it never
can become a place of safety; and any thing short of that can
add little to the prosperity of the town.  The expence neces-
sary for this purpose, according to an estimate made by an
architect, who viewed the ground in 1754, would not ex-
ceed 900 L.  Nature has indeed laid the foundation, and like-
wise furnished the materials for building a proper harbour.
On the east side, a ledge of free stone rocks, about 30 yards
broad, reaches from high water, at neap tide, to low water at
spring tide, which are seldom overflowed except in severe
storms.  On the West side, a number of flat rocks run out
from the beach S. S. W. into the open sea, close by the side
of which there is 6 or 8 fathom water.  The South end of
these is covered by half tide, when small vessels may enter
the harbour, though they cannot, until near full sea, reach the
     VOL. XV. G g


