
     Statistical Account

On the west of Hassendeanbank is the estate of Tiviotbank,
lately purchased by David Simpson, Esq; another residing
heritor, who has built a neat modern house on a rising bank,
in view of the river, and ornamented the place with a va-
riety of plantations.  On the west and north-west are the
lands of Hassendeanburn, Horsleyhill, and Huntlaw, belong-
ing to Robert Dickson, Esq; the second heritor in the pa-
rish, who has lately built a large convenient house a small
distance from the water.  In this corner was the site of
Hassendeanburn church, supposed to be an appendage of
Melrose Abbey, (the farm next to it goes by the name of
Monks Croft, where there was a tower called Monks
Tower).  The church, and most of the church-yard, are
carried off by the water; yet, so strong is the desire "of
" sleeping with our father,' that they continued to bury
here, though, after every flood, the haughs were covered
with human bones, till last winter, a great swell of the river
swept it all away, except one corner.  Since that time,
some of the dead have been listed and carried to different
burial grounds.  This parish is now divided amongst the
parishes of Wilton, Minto, and Roberton.  The original
stipend was all annexed to Roberton.  Here I must offer an
advice to landed gentlemen, always to take care that the
stipend be annexed together with their lands.  The pro-
prietors of this old parish have found the disadvantage of
not attending to this, by the different processes of augmen-
tation that have been raised against them by the several
ministers.

   Nursery.-On the lands of Hassendeanburn was establish-
ed, by the late Mr Dickson's father, one of the first nurse-
ries in the Kingdom, which was carried on by the late Mr
Dickson, who also established the nursery at Hawick, Both
these nurseries are now carried on by the Messrs Dicksons;


