
72                       INVERNESS-SHIRE.

preserved, and is still extant.  A Roman tripod was also found
some years ago, concealed in a rock, and is deposited in the same
hands with the urn." *  Where the last two relics of antiquity
now are, we have not discovered.
                          III.-POPULATION.
  The population, at least for a good many years back, has gra-
dually increased.  At the date of the last Statistical Account, it
amounted to 1803, and at the successive Parliamentary surveys of
1811, 1821, 1831, the respective results were, 1981, 2004, and
2080; of the last of which numbers, 941 were males, and 1139
females.  In 1833, however, the district of Insh, which previously
formed part of this parish, was erected into a separate charge,
quoad sacra, and, consequently, its population comes now to be de-
ducted.  This deduction leaves for Kingussie, by a survey com-
pleted in October 1833, a population of 721 males, and 912 fe-
males, total, 1633.   The increase observable at the successive
dates of census, greatly owing, no doubt, to the erection of vil-
lages, which have attracted people from the neighbouring parishes,
would probably have been much greater, were it not for emigra-
tion, and the want of sufficient employment for the young of the
working classes and for tradesmen, who are in consequence obliged
to seek the means of a livelihood elsewhere, and chiefly in a fo-
reign land.  No fewer than eighty souls left the united parish in
1833 for America.   The inhabitants are distributed in the fol-
lowing proportions: Residing in villages, 704; in the country, 929.
The annual average of births for the last seven years is 47; of mar-
riages, 13.  No register of deaths is kept.


        <TABLE>
                      Number of persons under IS years of age,   574
                                           between 15 and 30,    405
                                                   30 and 50,    350
                                                   5O and 70,    249
                                           upwards of 70,         55
                                                                ____
                                    Total,    -       -         1633, as above.
   There are but few people of independent fortune amongst us.
Each of the five landholders possesses property in the parish to a
much greater amount than L. 5o.  The number of unmarried men,
bachelors, and widowers, upwards of fifty years of age is 25; and
of unmarried women, upwards of forty-five, 62.  As the census of
1831 was taken before the disjunction of Insh from Kingussie, the
following particulars, extracted from that census, must be given for

     <FOOTNOTE>Old Statistical Account.


