
     Statistical Account

Creels and crook-saddles are entirely in disuse.  The igno-
rance and inattention of the farmers of this country, are
more conspicuous in the management of their sheep, than in
any other branch of rural economy.  There are in the pa-
rish, at present, about 1300; but, in summer, there will be
twice as many.  The greatest part of there are the small
white faced Scotch sheep, which seem to be natives of this
country; but there are a few which are bred between these
and the black faced Tweeddale, or Linton breed, here called
bruiket sheep; and there are others, which, by the remote-
ness of the original, crossing and intermixing again with the
sheep of the country, partake, more or less, of the two spe-
cies.
   This cross breed has probably been at first brought into
the country, with a view to raise the size of the carcase; but,
although the price of sheep has nearly tripled within these
40 years, neither the carcase nor the wool have been much
attended to by our farmers, whose principal object, and, by
their own account, chief gain, is in the dung which manures
their folds.  They are looked upon as prejudicial to cattle,
because the country people think that they eat up a great
deal of the grass; and, therefore, none but those who have
extensive hill-grazings, keep any sheep.
   The hill grounds are not, however, particularly kept for
sheep; but young cattle and young horses are turned out up-
on them.  The flocks of several tenants generally range the
same pastures in common; and as every one is desirous to
keep as many as he can, they are very generally over-stocked.
When a farmer has not a sufficient stock of his own, or more
pasture ground than is proportioned to his winter feeding,
he takes in sheep during the summer, at the very moderate
rate of 2 d. per head for three months, though, as he looks
upon the dung of the animal as his profit, they are allowed


