
     Statistical Account

found of any considerable size, either above or below
ground.

   Inundations.-The lower part of this parish is very much
subject to be flooded by the rivers.  In September 1768, and
August 1782, there were a remarkable inundation.  The ri-
ver Findhorn rose to such a height, that more than a mile
in breadth of the finest lands was laid under water, and the
crops either carried away or destroyed.

   Manufactures.-The inhabitants in general are disposed to
industry.  No manufactures of public importance are carried
on in or about Forres, except what supplies the town and its
vicinity.  The spinning of linen yarn has for 20 years back
brought a considerable supply of money to this country.  The
spinning of yarn, and manufacturing such of it as may be
necessary for domestic purposes, has employed a considerable
number of women, whose earnings have been of great advan-
tage to themselves, and beneficial to the public.  The mer-
chants are in the use of buying the yarn, and sending it to
Glasgow, where there is generally a ready sale, unless the
market is overstocked with Irish yarn, which, only on ac-
count of its cheapness, at certain times is preferred.  But
since the year 1784, the yarn trade has been gradually de-
clining, owing to the increase of machines for spinning cot-
ton in the south country, and the great quantities of yarn
from Ireland imported into Glasgow, by which the price of
yarn in this country has been greatly reduced.  Many of
those formerly employed in spinning yarn for sale have of
late taken to the spinning of Dutch flax for the manufactur-
ing companies at Aberdeen and Inverness.
   A merchant of this town, in the year 1784, sent to Glaf-
gow 23,290 spindles of yarns which was collected near this


