
     Statistical Account

   Rivulets, Cascades, Mill, Cave, etc.-Two small rivulets,
arising on the side adjacent adjacent to Garrock, at some dis-
tance from each other, add not a little to the agreeable va-
riety.  In some places they form deep gulfs, in others beau-
tiful cascades; now they are seen meandring amidst corn-fields
or pasture grounds, then they run under two stone arches;
and afterwards, dashing among craigs and fragments of rock,
unite their streams a little below the church.  Having con-
tributed to diversify and adorn a tract of some miles, they
add to the conveniences of life by supplying with water the
only corn mill within the parish.  Down the stream, in a se-
questered retreat, where there is scarcely any thing to be seen
but the firmament, and a wide expanse of ocean, there is a
cave of sufficient height to admit a man in an erect posture.
This subteraneous abode gradually turns lower towards the
extremity, and seems originally to have been formed by the
dashing of the waves, though it is now distant from the shore
a full quarter of a mile, and more than 12 feet above the
present bed of the rivulet.

   Villages, Sea Coast, Shipwrecks, etc.-The opening of the
land here bears a strong resemblance to a creek or harbour,
which tends to mislead such as are unacquainted with the
coast, which is flat and rocky.  A small village of 15 houses,
built upon the beach, contributes to this mistake, and while
it seems to promise assistance to the distressed mariner, al-
lures him to destruction.  Several vessels have suffered ship-
wreck by attempting to run ashore at this place; and the ut-
most exertion of the people at land has seldom been effec-
tual to rescue their crews from the fury of the waves.  This
place is called the Haughs of Nether Benholme, lies almost in
a direct line with the church, and is nearly situated in the
middle between the fishing towns of Gurdon and Johnshaven;


