
     Statistical Acoount

present incumbent took a list of examinable persons, or of
those above 8 years of age, and found that they amounted to
830.  The number, an. 1790, was 805, of whom 389 were males,
and 416 females; so that the population has not much varied.
In Dr Webster's report, the number of souls is 1164.  Proba-
bly, when the return consisted only of examinable persons, he
had certain data upon which he calculated the number of souls.
The population of the country part of the parish has certainly
decreased; but the town of Largs, which contains about the
half of the parish, has proportionally increased.  The number
of deaths varies considerably in different years; according as
the small-pox, or any species of dangerous fever, prevails or
not.  In such cases, the number of deaths is above 40; but
in ordinary years, between 20 and 30.  Inoculation has been
introduced several times; but, notwithstanding its self-evi-
dent utility, the least accident tends to discredit it.  The num-
ber of births, one year with another, is about 30.
   Though the Largs lies conveniently enough for some species
of trade and manufactures, yet the want of coal, and more
especially, the tax upon that necessary article, will for ever
prevent the very existence of them.  Perhaps Turkey itself
cannot afford an instance of a tax more oppressive and more
absurb.  Among the trades people, who live in Largs, the wea-
vers are the most numerous, particularly the silk-weavers;
being employed by the manufacturers of Paisley, who have
been of great benefit to the place*.  Fishing has been much
less attended to, than it grain in Bute and Cumbraes; and also
import it from the south Scotland, and from Ireland.-

<FOOTNOTE>

*The trades-people are nearly as follows: 66 weavers, 29 car-
penters, 10 shoemakers, 7 taylors, 5 smiths, 5 coopers, 4 ma-
sons.


