
<APPENDIX>

to Gay the poet, either from this, or Pennycuick, where his
patrons, the Duke and Dutchess of Queensberry, have their
portraits, and were intimately acquainted, he addresses him
thus:
     To thee frae edge of Pentland height,
     Where fawns and fairies take delight,
     And rival a' the live long night
     O'er glens and braes,
     A bard that has the second fight
     Thy fortune spaes.

<UNREADABLE>

This is the only place, in the neighbourhood of the Pentland
Range that looks up in front to these mountains.  In the
month of May, the bright green sward of the Spittal Hill is
often, on this side, half covered and studded over with all
the ewes of the farm, and their young ones, as white as snow,
basking above the river, in the face of the sun, striking and
jumping about, or making the air resound with their bleat-
ings; whilst the shepherd and his dog, laid on a neighbour-
ing height, command the whole, and seek the cooling breeze.
When, in a fine evening, from the front windows, in the
month of July, the sun, with glowing clouds innumerable,
inclines towards the western shoulder of the mountain, and
his golden rays stream along its smooth and verdant sur-
face, touching the slightest inequality, and deepening and
extending every shadow; when at this time, the flock ap-
pears over the lawns and trees, from the other side, on its
summit, and, spread like a white sheet, gradually contradicting
descends into the bughts, about mid-way down, where the
milk-maids await, "and," as it is expressed in the 4th scene
of the 2d act, "Rosie???ts the milking of the ewes," attended
by the shepherd wrapt in his plaid, with his staff and his
dog; it is impossible not to join in the request of the poet,
in that beautiful old scottish melody, "Will you go to the

</UNREADABLE>

     VOL. XVII. 41


