
     Of Fetteresso.

pearance.  The second district stretches along the coast, and
comprehends the estates of Cowie, Muchals, and Elsick.
Here the face of the country has but a bare appearance, as
there are no trees, excepting a few at the mansion-houses of
Muchals and Elsick.  There are, however, rich corn fields
enclosed with stone or earthen fences on both sides of the
post-road that runs through this part of the parish, which
gives the country a fertile appearance.  The lands of Moun-
quich, lying 5 miles W. from the coast, form the third dis-
trict.  The face of the country here, in general, is not fa-
vourable.  In one particular spot, however, great improve-
ments have been made of late, which, amidst the gloomy
waste which every where surrounds it, presents an agreeable
prospect.  Mr. Silver, a native of this district, made a pur-
chase of the estate of Netherby, on his return from the West
Indies, where he built a genteel modern dwelling-house, with
a complete set of offices, which, since his death, have been
greatly improved by his son.  He likewise planted several
pieces of moorish ground with Scotch firs, ash, and oak, &c.
which are in a very thriving state; and highly improved and
cultivated about 100 Scotch acres, which he enclosed in small
fields, with stone fences and hedge rows of ash; by which
means, and the very great improvements he made on the state
of the roads, the inhabitants here are happily put on a foot-
ing with those on the coast.

   Climate and Diseases.-The air is in general dry and healthy;
and the people little subject to contagious distempers.  The
most prevalent are rheumatisms and nervous fevers.  It de-
serves to be remarked, that the people who reside near the
mosses and marshy places, enjoy as good health, and live to
as great age, as those near the coast.  Many of them live to
70, and some of them to 80 years of age, and upwards.

     VOL. XII. 4 F


