
     Statistical Account

feet in height.  It is very nearly square, being 22 inches
at the base, and tapering gradually towards the top, where
it measures only 10 inches.  Some old people remember
2 stones of the same appearance, one of them much larger
than the one described; all within 300 or 400 yards of
each other.  By ploughing and digging the ground about
them, they fell down, and were broken for the purposes of
building.-There is a little round hill high the head of
Locheck, called Tom-a-chorachafish, 'the man's hillock,
'whose legs were of unequal length.'  It is said, that a
Prince of Denmark, whose party had been routed in an
engagement on the coast, is buried in this hillock, where
he had been overtaken by his pursuers, killed and inter-
red.  He is said to have been of gigantic stature.  He is
called 'an Corrachasach mor mae Righ Lochlan:' the
great Corrachasach, son to the King of Denmark.

   Caves.-A cave in the side of a hill, called Tur-na'n
calman, 'the fort of pigeons,' in the farm of Invernaodin,
is frequently visited.  It id remarkable for the length of
time a stone thrown in at the mouth of it, continues to
tumble down with a remarkable noise, as if it were roll-
ing over sheets of copper.  There is another cave in a
hill called Carnach mhor, so wide at the entrance as to ad-
mit 4 men a-breast; it then expands, furnishing an apart-
ment, where 50 men in arms may stand without any in-
conveniency; then it becomes narrow, and in advancing,
there is an apartment equally large with the first; and so
on alternately, as far as it has been explored.  There are
a number of other smaller caves in the side of the same
hill.  A cave in the farm of Ballimore, in the face of a
steep rugged rock, deserves only to be mentioned on ac-
count of a remarkable man who took up his residence in
it, and whose name it bears.  It is called Uambachoro-


