
     of Longforgan.

   There are other ploughs used for drilled crops, such as
potatoes, turnips, and beans.  One called a scraper, with a
broad flat sock, made to cut a space of about 6 inches, and
from each wing of the plough a thin plate of iron runs
down to the level of the sock, with a cutting edge in the
direction of the drill, and its point turned inwards, and so
contrived, that these three, i. e. the sock and two wings,
shall cut or brush along the whole space between the drills,
and cut up every weed at about 2 or 3 inches deep.  This
operation is succeeded by another, with a double-headed
plough, the heads of which are smaller than the common
plough, and so contrived, with the flat side of each head
outwards, as to cut close to the edge of each drill; and as
the mould-boards of each are of course upon its inside, it
turns the mould inwards, leaving a ridge of earth and col-
lected weeds in the middle of the space between the drills.
The whole drilling operation is finished with the double
mould-board plough:  All these are tempered with a rack
and pin.
   There is also a very ingenious instrument used in this
parish for sowing turnip.  It is constructed thus:  Two
wooden rollers, of about 8 inches diameter, placed on end
upon one axle, for convenience of turning, both together
occupying a space of 6 feet, so as to stretch over two drills
at at time, are fixed by a frame to shafts for one horse; and
behind this another frame of light wood is attached to it by
a rope or chain from its middle, in which last frame is pla-
ced an iron axle, with a light iron wheel of 18 inches dia-
meter at each end, and to which axle are fitted two boxes
with covers for sowing turnip, with conductors, to which
are fitted iron points, moveable, so as to open the earth and
drop the feed deeper or shallower at pleasure.  The boxes
also are moveable upon the axle, to be fitted to any di-
stance of drills; and behind each conductor a small roller of
14 inches wide, and 4 inches diameter, moves in sheers to


