
     Statistical Account

another, and in a cross direction from the one end of the
grave to the other.  These graves are certainly of very
great antiquity, and perfectly agree with Ossian and Fin-
gal's description; which, as above, is four grey stones
placed on edge and across the grave from head to foot, and
at equal distances from one another.  That these places are
sepulchres of the dead, there can be no doubt; the minister
of Westray saw on this same ground (which consists entire-
ly of sand) different human bones, and particularly a skull,
pretty entire.

   Fuel-There is only one peat most in the island of
Westray, and none other in the parish; this is the exclusive
property of one heritor, who a few years ago has prohi-
bited almost all the inhabitants from the benefit of this
moss, excepting his own tenants.  Neither can this neces-
sary article be procured from any of the neighbouring
islands, the proprietors there being equally tenacious of
their property, and, at the same time, under some appre-
hensions of these mosses wearing out, neither money nor
interest can prevail with them to serve the inhabitants of
Westray with an article so much needed.  This is a most
distressing consideration to a great number of the inhabi-
tants of Westray; and indeed it appears simply impossible
for a great many of these to subsist, unless a supply of coal
be henceforth imported.

     3

