
     Statistical Account

fect a great and happy change, upon their respective
estates.  Were every species of feudal servitude entirely
abolished, and the lands let rather below than above their
instrinsic value, and upon much longer leases than is now
the practice, and the tenants encouraged to raise green
crops, viz. potatoes, turnips, sown grass, etc., and the
heritors to be at some expense in diffusing among their
people a spirit of virtuous industry, and useful know-
ledge, particularly by rewarding the most worthy with
longer leases, or otherwise, and by erecting and cherish-
ing a greater number of schools, the face of the country,
in general, would soon assume a different appearance;
because, in proportion as the people became more en-
lightened and virtuous, and less afraid of extreme indi-
gence, they would become more enterprising, in ventur-
ing upon new improvements.  Wealth and population
would increase, the village would grow to a flourishing
state, and the benefit of it would extend more and more
to the whole neighbourhood; and, in fine, this island and
parish, which are already no contemptible nursery of
useful hands to the kingdom at large, would become
much more so.

