
     Statistical Account

populous district between Tweed and Teviot; especially
to the tenants on the east end of this parish, whom the ac-
cidental magnitude of these rivers often interrupted in the
course of business.  Another inconvenience arises to this
parish from its intersection by the Teviot.  The lands ad-
jacent to the river are not indeed exposed to much damage
thereby, and a boat is kept at Roxburgh, both for serving
the country, and accommodating the people with access to
the church; yet the flooding of the river often prevents a
populous district of the parish from attending public wor-
ship, and totally deprives the children there of the benefit of
the parochial school.  As many landward parishes labour
under similar inconveniencies with regard to parochial
schools, it is hoped that in these arrangements understood
to be going on through Scotland for better encouraging the
education of youth, some plan will be adopted for provi-
ding stated schoolmasters in such places as have not access
to the parish-school.

   Views.-In almost every corner of this parish the eye is
presented with objects that nature and art seem vying how
best to adorn.  The beauties of the scenery which sur-
rounds the seat of the ancient city of Roxburgh exceeds all
description.  A little to the west of this, the public road
lies along the top of a precipice lined with trees, through
which a traveller perceives the Tweed rolling " dark,
" drumbly and deep," far below him; at a little distance,
on the other hand, he sees the Teviot meandring round a
large plain, and bounded by a rocky wooded bank.  While,
contemplating these rivers, truly beautiful when in low
water, and grand when in flood, the spectator suddenly
loses fight of them, and every thing else but the wood that
overshadows him in a hollow of the way.  In this gloomy
path he goes only a few paces, until a most enchanting


