
     Of Kinghorn.

turned towards the acquisition of capital, and whose Idom look be-
yond the present moment.  Drunkenness, dissipation, and de-
bauchery in youth, poverty and wretchedness in old age; and,
besides this, to say nothing of the tendency of burgh-politics,
the scum of the creation continually floating here, cannot fail
to taint whatever it touches.  All the banditti and vagabonds
of the country continually passing and repassing through this
great thorough-fair, and occasionally stopping, and lodging for
days and weeks together, cannot fail to poison the priciples,
and to corrupt the morals of those with whom they mingle,
and among whom they nestle.  Not but that there are ex-
ceptions to be found, even among those that are the most ex-
posed to these temptations.  Not but that there are many
here, as sober, as industrious, and as respectable in their se-
veral stations as in any other place.  Even where the plague
rages with the greatest virulence, there are always some that
escape the fatal infection.  And here we must do justice to a
class of men, whom we have frequently had occasion to hear
represented as drunken, rude, and insolent to a proverb; we
mean the boatmen.  That some such there are, we readily
admit; but at the same time we will venture to affirm, that
there is not in the island, nor perhaps in Europe, a public
ferry, where the watermen are, in general, more active, more
civil, and more obliging.  If so the rough and insolent, they
sometimes behave with rudeness, the fault, surely, is not en-
tirely theirs.  To their skill and activity, and even general
sobriety, it may, in some measure, be attributed, that there is
not an instance of so much as one of these boats having been
lost, within the memory of man, or even upon record.  With
respect to the inhabitants of the country parish, who are most-
ly employed in the cultivation of land, we may observe, that
they are, in general, a sober, industrious, and charitable peo-
     H h 2


