
     Statistical Account

is the patron of this parish.  The stipend was augmented
about 24 years ago, since the settlement of the present
minister, and is now 741. Sterling a year paid in money.
There is also a legal glebe adjoining to th manse, which
was excambed for the old glebe, lying in the parish of
Little Dalton, where the manse was also situated, almost
2 miles from the church.  This being found extremely
inconvenient, an excambion took place about 30 years
ago, and a new manse was then built, and a glebe laid
out at a small distance from the church.- The school
master has the legal salary of 100 merks; he teaches
reading, writing, and arithmetic.-Only 1 indigent per-
son stands upon the roll; which is very fortunate, as
the want of the weekly collection, occasioned by the pecu-
liar circumtances of the parish, would prevent the ne-
cesitous from receiving any other support, except what
arose from the charitable dispositions of their neigh-
bours.

   Agriculture, &c.-Improvement of the soil has made
a considerable progress in this parish within these last
20 or 30 years.  The contiguity to, and application of
lime as a manure, has much contributed to this desirable
purpose; many enclosures have also been made; several
tracks of common and barren land brought into culture;
and the appearance of the country in general greatly
altered for the better.  Oats and barley are principally
raised, and a small quatity of wheat, which requires
rather a stronger soil.  Potatoes are cultivated with
great success; and the crops of grain are much more
than sufficient for the consumption of the inhabitants,
who do therefore export and sel. the overplus.  Some
turnips are also planted every year in the drill way,


