
     of Dunbog.

persons of influence, the clergy of Scotland must degene-
rate.  If they become objects of compassion, their weight
must be lessened, and no respectability of character will
counterbalance that evil.  Should the teachers of religion
become meanly thought of, on account of their poverty,
religion will suffer; and if good morals decline, industry,
which requires regularity and sobriety of conduct, must de-
cline also.  The very small encouragement also given to
schoolmasters, is one of the greatest evils; for it is not only
an unspeakable loss to the poor men who teach, but to the
rising generation.  There are not a few parishes in this
neighbourhood, where tha salary is only 100 merks.  Some
have L. 100 Scots.  But what man fit to teach can live
upon this?  What knowledge can he communicate?  A
common tradesman can live more at his ease.  Were the
encouragement increased, though but a little, it would do
more good than can be expressed.  Imperfect teaching of
youth is like bad plowing in spring, which must of neces-
sity produce a bad crop in harvest.  The poorer sort of
people are left without a remedy, and must send their chil-
dren to the parish schoolmasters, such as they are.

