
     of Hamilton.

stocked with fallow deer.-Barncluith, a pleasant little spot
upon the bank of Avon, at a north corner of the Duke's great
park, has been mech resorted to by strangers.  It is a house
on the top of a bold bank, with terrace walks cut out of the
rock, one under another, descending towards the river, sup-
ported by high walls, covered with fruit trees of different
kinds.  Evergreens of various shapes stood along these walks.
On favourable points were built little handsome pavilions; and
a jett d'eau, in the middle of a bason, spouted the water to a
considerable height.  This spot commande the prospect of the
fine wooded banks of Avon, rising like a vast amphiteatre,
with here and there some prominent rocky oaks, some beautiful
peeps into the open fields, and the water rolling below; so
that every change of place furnished the view of new and de-
lightful objects.  These works are now fallen greatly into de-
cay; and the taste for this artificial species of gardening hav-
ing become less fashionable, the place is not now held in so
much repute.  But while the proprietor, who planned and ex-
ecuted them, is remembered, the spot will always be regarded
with respect.  He was of the family of the Hamiltons of
Pancaitland, a very studious and learned man, particularly a
great adopt in mathematics, and the curious mechanic arts;
and, at the same time, a man of great benevolence of heart.
He is said to have executed the works above mentioned, prin-
cipally with a view to give bread to the poor, in the time of
the famine, which happened towards the end of the last cen-
tury.-The old church, which stood hard by the palace,
was a venerable Gothic pile, some parts of which were highly
ornamented in that taste.  It is now all pulled down, except
the aisle, which covers the family burying vault.-Where
the lower part of the town formerly stood, is a square column
of stone, about six feet high, very rudely cut, without either
     Vol. II. D d


