
     of Lumphanan.

   Miscellaneous Remarks.-The people are not expensive in
diet or clothes-The young folks begin to appear more gay on
public occasions.-All are punctual in attending public worship,
and seem pretty well pleased with their condition.  The farmers,
complain of grassums, and short leases, but especially the want
of servants, their high wages and little work.  It is evident that
the tenants here must take the burden of the work on themselves,
and pay every attention to their business, else they must go to
ruin.  It cannot be said that any of them are making rich; few
are laying by so much cash as their servants.  In winter they
often can get little done for some months, on account of the
storms of rain and snow, and great frosts.  During the long
winter nights the men servants think they should do nothing for
their masters advantage.  Subtenants there know not how to
employ themselves so as to get bread.
   The public roads are not bad, being kept in tolerable good
order by the statute labour; the people sometimes grudge that
they are called out, especially when well advanced in life, 6
days every year, or that they must pay money.-Bridges are
much needed, as the burns swell suddenly, and become almost
impassable.  Nor are they in much better condition often in
winter frosts.  Two great roads intersect one another very near
the church, eastward.

