
     Of Birsay and Harray.

incest, and has not appeared again; and another fled for
petty thefts.

   Productions.-The productions of the parish are com-
mon bear and small oats, which, in some years, do not
supply themselves; but in very good years they may
spare a small quantity.  The nearest average that can
be made, without an exact list, may be, of horses 172,
or rather more; cattle 258, or rather more:  they have
a few sheep in Harray, but not so many as their bounds
might contain; some of these are very fine woolled, but
that has been of late years very much hurt, by intro-
ducing a mongrel breed of English rams, which not on-
ly render their wool rough and hairy, but brought the
scab among them, which killed them by scores; many
likewise perish in the snow.  They sow and reap their
crops nearly as in Birsay.  There is marl in plenty, of
a very good quality, and much used.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-All the advantage the
parish has, is being pretty near to the fuel, which is
very good of its kind, and nearest to coal of any peats
that ever I saw; burns with a clear steady flame, and
when charred, will work iron very well.  Its disad-
vantages are, a want of sea fish, of which they can
procure but few.  The ancient Norse language long
prevailed in Harray, more so than in any part of the
country, but is now worn out:  the names of places are
all undoubtedly Norwegian, Heuon a Lidna, a knoll to
lie upon; Rusland-Burghs, compounded words which end
in burghs or garths, which signify an enclosure of
greater or lesser extent; with many others similar to
those mentioned in Birsay parish.  The land rent of this

     T t 2


