
     of Banff.

small, confined, and often crowded houses, where the air
breathed is foul and noxious, and from inattention to clean-\
liness, particularly of bed and bed-clothes, which are too
seldom washed, and very rarely ventilated.
   Such existing causes will, in all situations, have an influ-
ence in producing fevers of a malignant kind, or of altering
the type of those which, upon their first attack, appear in-
flammatory.
   A reformation in regard to the above particulars, as far
as it could be effected, would prove of the most beneficial
consequences.
   The advantages attending local situation would be much
improved, and rendered more complete, by conducting into
the town, from springs in the neighbourhood, a sufficient
supply of good wholesome water.  This measure, though
expensive, is practicable, and its expediency is apparent
from this circumstance, that the water in general, over the
whole town, is more or less hard and brackish.
   Proper regulations established, enforced, and uniformly
maintained, for keeping the streets perfectly clean, and free
from all baneful and putrid substances, would be highly con-
ducive to health and comfort.
   An infectious fever prevailed here, with unusual violence,
about the year 1782.  Unwholesome food, particularly an
immoderate use of potatoes, (that year of a bad kind), were
among the secondary causes to which this fever was ascribed.
   Mr Skene, the late minister of this parish, a gentleman
alike distinguished by his great medical knowledge, and his
humane gratuitous practice, wrote a small treatise on this
fever, in form of a "Serious Address to the People," etc.
   This short address, which Provost Robinson was at the
expence of printing and publishing, contained several plain
sensible instructions respecting the prevention and treatment
of the disease, and points out the means by which health


