
                                    KILWINNING.                             815

	Alauda arborea		  Pyrrhuls vulgaris		Anas crecea
	Alcedo ispida	          Phasianus colchicus	        Sturnus vulgaris
	Rallus aquaticus	  Cinclus aquaticus	        Scolopax gallinula
	       crex	          Anas penelope	                Saxicela cenanthes.

	Pike and perch are found in Ashgrove Loch; salmon and sal-
mon-trout in the river Garnock. The fisheries in this stream were
much more productive in former times than at present. The pro-
gress of agriculture diminishing the supplies of pabulum for the
fish, the increase of population augmenting the number of poach-
ers, together with the prevalence of stake-net fishing along the
shore, near the mouth of the river, are causes which may, in part,
account for this change. The river now yields no rent, and is
preserved for angling, but seldom affords much sport to the dis-
ciples of Isaac Walton.

	Botany.--List of some of the rare plants found in the parish:

	Lepidium Smithii                Nuphar lutea                  Anagallis tenella
	Sedum telephium                 Cinanthe coracata             Polygonum bistorta
	Lysimachia vulgaris             Cicuta virosa                 Veronica scutellata
	          thyrsiflora           Campanula lafifolia           Asplenium trichomanes
	Drosera rotundifolia            Gnaphalium germanicum                  thalypteris
        Narthecium ossifragum           Scirpus sylvaticus            Hypnum auriscalipium,
	Nymphea alba                    Senecio Sarcenicus            &c.

	The finest forest trees in this neighbourhood are in the park at
Eglinton. They are of unknown age and large size, consisting
chiefly of oak, elm, and beech, which last predominate. The park
is of reat extent and thickly wooded, and beyond it considerable
plantations have been formed by successive Earls of Eglinton,
during the last seventy years. The mansion-houses of Mount-
greenan, Monkcastle, and Ashgrove, are also surrounded with
thriving plantations of different ages, and a considerable part of
the parish is thus sheltered and ornamented.
			    II.--CIVIL HISTORY.
	I am not acquainted with any work except the former Statistical
Account, devoted exclusively to the history of this parish, It is
noticed in Timothy Pont's "Cunningham Topographized," (MS.
Avocates' Library,) and in Chalmers's Caledonia. A full account
of it is given in Robertson's Topographical Description of Cuni
ninghame. The records of the regality of Kilwinning are preserv-
ed in the Register-Office. The chartulary of the monastery has
unfortunately been lost.
	The history of the parish begins with that of the patron Saint,
from whom it derives its name.*  In the calendar of Scottish

<FOOTNOTE>For the following notice of St Winning, and some others relating to the anti-


