
     of Evie and Rendall.

and divided into nine or a dozen farms, each farmer posses-
ses perhaps twelve patches of ground, of a plank each, scat-
tered over the whole.  And though quarries of excellent
stone, and easily wrought, lie every where near the surface,
no encouragement is given to inclosing; and the people seem 
averse to a mode that would impede what they think the 
natural liberty of themselves and their cattle, to traverse
every field at pleasure during the greatest part of the year.
The present minister wished to inclose at least part of his 
glebe, but met with every obstruction, not only from his 
lowest and most turbulent neighbours, but also from the 
late factor of his principal heritor.
   Were proper encouragement giver, and prudent methods
followed, to promote improvements in agriculture, there 
cannot be a doubt but that the value of these parishes might 
be greatly increased, both to the proprietors and communi-
ty.  There are 13 heritors in these parishes.  Only two of 
them are of any consequence, and both of them non-resi-
dent, viz. Lord Armadale, and John Traile, Esq; of Wood-
wick, who has bur lately succeeded to a very old and in-
firm relation.  The highest rent of the other heritors is a-
bout L. 12 Sterling, and the lowest 5 s.  Almost all the 
lands pay a feu-duty, and some of them a very heavy one,
to Lord Dundas, as representing the Crown in the earldom,
or as tacksman of the bishopric of Orkney.

   Condition of the People and Poors Funds.-In the former
respect, they differ very little from the neighbouring di-
stricts.  None of them can be called rich, and but few of 
them extremely indigent.  The poors funds are miserable 
indeed.  The annual collections in both parishes seldom ex-
ceed l. 3 Sterling; and fines from delinquents, marriage,
and mort-cloth dues, amount to still less.  Out of this, two 
precentors and session-clerk, and two kirk-officers, have hi-


