
     of Kirkmichael.

balls, are frequent at the holy season.  Foot ball is a com-
mon amusement with the school boys, who also preserve the
custom of cock-fighting on Shrove Tuesday.  All the people
are of the established religion, except one or two families of
papists in Glenshee.

   Disadvantages.-The parish is divided from all the neigh-
bouring districts by hills, most of them several miles broad.
It is separated from the market towns, and from the Stor-
month, (whence it is supplied with meal and corn and other
necessary articles) by a hill, though not high, of very steep
ascent on both sides.  This proves a great bar in the way of
carriage.  The intercourse of the people with each other, is
in some measure difficult and dangerous; as over the rapid
river which runs through Strathardle, there is no proper
bridge from the one end of it to the other.  There was for-
merly a bridge of three arches at the village of Kirkmichael;
but two of the arches fell about 40 years ago, and have ne-
ver since been re-built: and the only substitute for these ar-
ches, is long planks laid across the river, supported by the
remaining pillars of the old bridge.
   A kind of bar, called a keith, laid across the river at Blair-
gowrie, by those who are concerned in the salmon fishery
there, effectually prevents the salmon from coming up the
rivers of Ardle and Shee.  This is a grievance which the
people think themselves justly entitled to complain of
   The tenants in different parts of the parish still perform
some services to their landlords, such as day's work in hay
time and harvest, or at fuel.
   Few of the tenants enjoy leases of their farms.  Holding
their small possessions by a short and uncertain tenure, they
are kept continually in a state of abject dependance on their
landlords.  It must be manifest to every observer, that the

     VOL. XV. 3 X


