
     of King-Edward.

in potatoes, turnips, and clover.  Small black oats, which
formerly occupied what was called the out-field, have given
place to white oats; and the distinction of infield and outfield
begins to be less attended to.  After fallow or turnips, where
the land is dry, the following crop is barley, with sown grass
for 3 or 4 years; where the land is wet, oats are found to
succeed better.  After breaking up, the rotation differs ac-
cording to the nature of the soil, and genius of the farme.
Most families raise flax sufficient for private use; and some
have obtained premiums from the trustees.-The advan-
tages of inclosures are better understood than experienced.
Excepting the fields in the immediate possession of some of the
heritors, we have few senced with stone or hedge.  Stones sit
for building are not to be found above ground in any part of
the parish; and inclosing with hedge, or stone quarried and
carried to a distance, would be attended with an expence,
greater than the rent of land and the shoreness of leases can
afford.  Though some of the heritors are disposed to make
compensation at the expiration of a lease, for building and in-
closing; yet the expence of both, or either of these, would
link too much of the small stock, with which many commence
farmers.

     Manner of Living, Produce, etc.-Animal food is rarely an
article in the bill of fare, but on holidays; among the better.
fort of farmers, tea is used once and often twice a-day; and
occationally among those of inferior rank.  Instead of ale,
with which our forefathers used to make merry, whisky punch
is now used at all social meetings.  Oats, bear, and pease-
meal, potatoes, and other vegetables, with milk, constitute
the ordinary fare of the bulk of the people.  Besides what is
necessary for this purpose, all the rent paid in grain, and a
considerable quantity of meal and grain, belonging to the te-

     3 E 2


