
     of Dunnichen.

   Although the granting of leases for nineteen years, at least,
is now become universal, yet there prevails a considerable di-
versity of opinion among proprietors of land as to the expe-
diency of including the life of the farmers in their leases.
Some advantages, however, seem to give a decided prefernce
to this last sort of lease.  The tenant knows he is settled for
life, and is therefore afraid to over-crop his land, left he
should thereby injure himself.  Many law-suits are thereby
avoided on this subject.  The tenant is also supposed to be
more attentive to the repairs of his buildings and sences; and
he certainly requires a much less vigilant inspection on the
part of the proprietor, or his factor.

   In order to protect the newly planted trees round the
farmer's enclosed fields, the proprietor of Dunnichen has gi-
ven the heirs of the tenants a right to one third part of them,
at the expiration of the lease; and he engages not to prose-
cute the tenants for any accidental dammage the trees may
suffer from cattle, or otherwise.  The tenants on this estate
consider the trees as a part of their own property, and are at
pains to protect them from injury, and to have other trees
planted in the room of such as have suffered.  A sensible
warmth is derived to the fields from such of these sence-rows
as have been planted fifteen or twenty years ago.

   It is apprehended, until farms are transmitted from father
to son, like an inheritance, as is much the cafe in England,
agriculture will not attain all the perfection of which it is
capable.  Veteres migrated coloni, is an odious mandate, mark-
the tenat's life, he has a chance of getting his son's life ad-
ded to his own, by paying a moderate fine to the proprietor.


