
     Statistical Account

and the proprietor has made very extensive plantations of fir
and other trees, all which add greatly to the beauty of the
country.  The fir trees towards the top of the hills are gene-
rally dwarfish; but they increase in size towards the bottom,
and are generally found to thrive better in a northerly than
in a southerly exposure.

   Soil, Agriculture, etc.-The soil is a black loam, and, in
some places, a strong clay, and not many feet from the sur-
face.  Limestone, of an excellent quality, is to be met with
in every field; but it is little used, except for the purposes
of building.  Many farmers in this parish have tried it with-
out success; and, though they do not pretend to lay that it
hurts their fields, yet they do not find the returns from it
equal to the expence.  A gentleman, who rents a very ex-
tensive farm, has lately used lime in very considerable quan-
tities; but it will require a little time fully to ascertain its
effects.  On ground lately taken in from the heath, its in-
fluence is more perceptible.
   The fields on the N. side of the parish have a good expo-
sure, and are of considerable extent, from the river to the
top of the hill; and, for the whole length of the parish on
that side, there is hardly a break in them, except where they
are intersected by a few small rills, and clumps of birch and
aller.  About every farm there are a considerable number of
ash trees, which are equally subservient to utility and orna-
ment.
   Except in two farms, there are no inclosures in the parish.
The stones for that purpose might be quarried at no great
expence.  In general, the ridges are straight; but few other
improvements in husbandry are to be met with.  No country
answers better for sown grass; and as rich fields of it are to
be met with here as in any part of Scotland; but they are


