
     Statistical Account

is become more salubrious, the children are stout and health-
ful, and there are now many instances of longevity in the pa-
rish.-Immediately beyond this large morass, runs the river
Doon, where there is perhaps the largest tract of natural mea-
dows that is to be found in any part of Scotland.  These fine
meadows are apt to be overflowed, by which their grass is fil-
led with sand and rendered hurtful to cattle; and often, in
great speats, a great deal of hay is carried away.  In order to
prevent this damage, the proprietors cut through a very high
and solid rock at the foot of Loch Doon, (from whence the ri-
ver flows), but the event did not answer their expectations.
Loch Doon is a beautiful piece of water, 9 miles long, abound-
ing in trout, with a hard rocky coast.  On an island are the
remains of a fine old castle, and there was a beautiful natural
cascade at the foot of the loch, before the cut was made.

   Minerals.-The parish is full of fine coal, and freestone, in
almost every corner of it.  These two useful articles terminate
here, there being none to the fouthward beyond this parish.
Coal is carried from hence, to the distance of 30 miles, into
Galloway.  There is also iron-stone to be found in the parish,
and lead in some of the hills.  Near the village of Dameling-
toun is the cheapest and best coal that is to be found in the west
of Scotland.

   Population, etc.-The following table will exhibit the state
of the parish, as to population, rent, etc.

<TABLE>

Population in 1755      739   Annual average of births
           in 1792      681    for 2 years               25
Above 12 years of age   472                    of buri
Below 12                209    als                       15

</TABLE>


