
     Statistical Account

ture on which they graze, as well as of the care which is ta-
ken to improve the stock, by crossing the breed, and rearing
none but the best ewe lambs.  Lambs are also frequently
brought from the southern parts of Scotland, which improve
greatly on this soil.  The wool is of a very good quality.
Lambs generally sell at 6 l. per score; wool sells at from 5 s.
to 7 s. per stone.  The following table will shew the number
of cows and sheep kept in this parish:

<TABLE>

     Milk Cows,    263
     Fat ditto,    370
     Sheep,       2470

</TABLE>

   Population.-The population of this parish, like that of
most other grazing countries in Scotland, has decreased very
much within these 40 years.  Since the return to Dr. Web-
ster, in 1755, it has decreased more than a third part.  There
are several farms in the parish, upon which from 14 to 20
familes formerly lived, where only from 5 to 8 families now
reside.  This depopulation is evidently caused by throwing
several small farms into one, which enables the possessor to
pay a greater rent to the proprietor, and at the same time to
live better in his own family, than when parcelled out in
small portions.  Nor is this counted disadvantageous to those
who are ejected, as the great demand for hands by manufac-
turing companies, affords them a ready reception; where they
and their children can earn more, and live better, than upon a
small farm.  But, notwithstanding present opinions, it still
remains a doubt, whether this revolution in the state of a
country, will in the end prove a national advantage.  Whe-
ther a pallid and sickly race, brought up in the confined air
of cotton mills, with few attachments, and little education,
will compensate for the sturdy sons of our hills and moun-


