
     Statistical Account

line from the sound of I, to the parish of Torafay, of
about 22 measured miles, which, as already mentioned,
is the greatest length of the parish.  Their breadth is from
3 to 6 measured miles.  Airdmeanach joins Brolass at the
head of Lochscredain, and is about 12 measured miles in
length, and from 3 to 6 measured miles in breadth.

   Soil and Surface.-The parish, in general, presents a
very barren aspect.  Part of it is flat, but the greatest
part is hilly, and better calculated for grazing than for
raising of crops.  The island of I is flat, consisting of 
heath, green pasture, rocks, and arable ground.  The 
arable ground is very fertile.  Ross is flat, except where
it marches with Brolass.  The greatest part of the sur-
face is most and heath; clayey and sandy soil make up
the arable land, except where it marches with Brolass,
where the soil is thin and light.  The grass is in gene-
ral soft and good, and even the heath of this district is
reckoned good feeding for cattle.  The arable land is
fertile.  Brolass has a northern exposure, rising in a 
gentle ascent from Lochscridain.  The soil is light, dry,
and reckoned barren.  The greatest part of the surface
consists of heath and rocks.  The part of this district
that faces the S, called Carsaig and Tinmore, produces
good soft grass for pasture.  Airdmeanach faces the S.,
rising to a considerable height from Lochferidain.  The 
soil and surface are similar to Brolass.  A part of this
district, called Gribun, faces the N., in which the arable
land is fertile, and the grass soft and good.  Adjacent
to Gribun is the fertile little island of Innis Kenneth.
In a parish so very extensive, there are many thousand
acres; but though it has been surveyed to a trisle, the 
incumbent could not get a copy of the survey.


