
     Statistical Account

   Schools.-In the year 1735, William Gordon, Esq; merchant
in Bristol, built a school and schoolmaster's house, and endowed
it with a salary of L. 10 per annum, on condition that all the
children of the parish should be taught gratis.  As the ex-
pence of living advanced, the schoolmaster found this provi-
tion too small for his support.  In the year 1775, he present-
ed a petition to the commissioners of supply, and obtained a
legal salary of 200 merks Scots.  His living, therefore, in-
cluding gratuities at Candlemans, may amount to L. 23 on an
average.  The houses formerly built having become ruinous,
new ones were erected in the year 1787, in a more centrical
situation, and the expence of them was defrayed out of the
vacant stipends, which fell due during the dependence of a
law-suit, about the right of patronage, previous to the settle-
ment of the present minister.  At this school about 60 chil-
dren are instructed in Latin, English, writing, arithmetic, etc.
There are several private teachers, whom a few neighbouring
families employ and pay.

   Poor.-On an average, seven or eight persons are main-
tained by alms.  At present, two are supported out of the
parochial funds.  Five, who can earn part of their subsistence,
receive a small quarterly contribution; and three others are
occasionally relieved as their necessities require.  The funds
arise entirely from the voluntary offerings of the people.  The
collections in the church are about L. 19  per annum.  The
principal heritor makes up the loss, which the poor would
otherwise sustain from his  non-residence, by ordering a con-
siderable quantity of meal to be distributed among them an-
nually, according to the direction of the session, and by fur-
nishing constant employment in his gardens and policy to se-
veral old and blind men, at the rate of 6 d. per day, which
prevents them from becoming public burdens.


