
     of Hamilton.

250 people of this parish, arrived to the years of discreation,
who join him.  The Macmillan sect, who prosess an adherence to
the pure tenets of the Presbyterian reformed religion, as esta-
blished in Scotland in the time of Charles I. have  upwards of
60 in the parish, who attend a meeting house in the neigh-
bourhood.  The Independents, who maintain an affectionate
brotherhood together, and disperse religious ordinances gra-
tuitously by turns, without the ceremony of clerical investi-
ture, have a society consisting of nearly 50, and a large room
in the town, properly sitted up for performing divine service.
There are three Anabaptists.  All the rest of the inhabitants
are either of the Established church, or attach themselves to
no particular fect.

   Schools.-There is a large hall for a grammar school;
which has had, for a long time paft, a good reputation; and,
besides the youth of the place, a great many boarders from a
distance, have been educated at it.  About 22 years ago, ano-
ther school-matter was established to teach English, writing,
arithmetic, etc. to whole salary the emoluments of precentor
and session-clerk have been added; together with the interest
of L. 100, left by Mr James Naismith, for the education of
poor children in the parish.  Ann, Duches of Hamilton, in the
beginning of this century, mortified 2000 merks Scots, under
the management of the church session, for four small salaries to
school-masters, in the distant villages of the parish.  Two of
these are still continued: the rest, from the decay of the vil-
lages, are dropt, and the money applied to other pious uses.
Besides these, there are always several private schools; the
teachers of which, have no other income, but the emoluments
from their respective scholars.

     C c 2


