
     of Duirinish.

Island, and which is about 18 miles broad.  The ground
about the lochs or branches of the sea, which run far into
the country, descends in some places with a quick, and in
other places with an easy slope towards the sea.  The pro-
montories or head-lands are rocks of immense height; the
moors in most places are deep and wet.  The soil in some
part is a light black loam, in some places of a reddish gra-
velly appearance; and though mostly thin and stony, it is on
the whole fertile and productive.  The air is very moist and
foggy; the west and southwest winds bring floods of rain,
owing probably to the vicinity of the Atlantic Ocean.
The most common distempers are rheumatisms, sciaticks,
colds, nervous fevers and dysenteries owing, it is presu-
med, to the wet and rainy climate.  The extent of the sea-
coast of this parish would measure upwards of 60 miles;
the shore is in general stony, and in many part very high
and rocky.

   Fish, Kelp, Harbours, etc.-The fish which frequent the
coast are herrings, ling cod, skate, mackerel, haddocks,
slounders, fye and cuddies.  Herrings and ling are export-
ed; and when sold in the country, a barrel of salt herrings
brings about 16 s. and ling L. 13 the ton.  The parish
exports about 20 tons of ling yearly at an average.  There
are likewise some seals, otters; and whales of a large size
are often seen in the Chammel, between this and the Long
Island.  Every Species of sea weed is reckoned most excel-
lent manure, though it is thought to burn and waste the
soil, when it is not mixed with earth, and it is reckoned
more profitable to convert it into kelp, than into manure.
There are some kelp-shores, and the parish makes about an
hundred tons annually.  The tide of flood in this channel
runs north and by east, and off the heads flows with great
rapidity, perhaps at the rate of 5 miles an hour in spring


