
                               KILMANY.                         557

make up any such deficiency, the heritors were accustomed to as-
sess themselves voluntarily, according to their valued rents. All
that was required of them was a sum of L.30 to L.35 every al-
ternate year. They thus kept the capital of the kirk-session en-
tire, and ready to be advanced upon any emergency. But on a late
occasion, a majority of heritors agreed not to contribute as they
had hitherto done, until the legacy left to the kirk-session by Mr
Gillespie was expended. The tendency of such proceeding, if
carried farther, is to bring on a legal assessment, which will de-
stroy here, as elsewhere, that independent and noble spirit, which
spurns at parochial relief. The present incumbent, at least, has
done all in his power to prevent this state of things.
  Innns.-There is now only one public-house in the parish.
  Fuel.-The principal article used for fuel is coal. There is
no pit of this valuable mineral nearer than twelve miles. By land
carriage, it is brought from Teasses in Ceres parish, from Drum-
carro in Cameron, from Kilmux, and from Orr's Bridge. It is
imported in considerable quantities into Balmerino, from various
places on the Forth, and from Newcastle. On the hill, a double
cart containing six loads, costs from 7s. 6d. to 9s. 6d.; carriage of
ditto. with tolls 8s. 10d. At Balmerino, English coal costs about
15S. to 17s., Scotch coal from 12s. 6d. to 17s., carriage 4s. for
a double cart. In winter the price is even higher at Balmerino
than what is stated.

  June 1838.


