
     General Appendix to [Vol. v.

     SIR,

   In perusing the StatisticaI Account of the parish of Bre-
chin, I was astonished to find an assertion in my father's
name, relating to the circular tower in that city, which, as it
can hardly gain belief, even from the most credulous, is like-
ly to bring reproach either on his understanding or veracity,
or on both; and which, as equally false and impossible to have
been affirmed by him, I must request that you will do him
the justice to have cancelled or contradicted in as public a
manner as it has been circulated.  He was not capable of say-
ing, that the tower in question, is said to bend Iike a willow
' in high winds, so as almost to touch the steeple;' nay, he
assures me, that though many people have asserted its vibra-
tion, and he was at pains to examine that circumstance often
and most attentively in some of the most violent gusts of
wind, he never yet perceived it; and he is positive that such
was the account he transmitted in his correspondence with
you.  I am inclined, therefore, to believe that it must have
been in your absence, and through the inattention of those
whom you employed at Edinburgh, that such a misrepresen-
tation has crept into the press; or, perhaps the compiler has
been misled by the account of that matter in Pennant's Tour,
though, if I rightly recollect, what Mr. Pennant says is far
from being so unlikely and incredible as the language of the
Statistical Work; at any rate, it is not Mr. Pennant's, but
Mr. Bruce's Account which it professes to exhibit to the
public.


