
300                          FIFESHIRE.

the necessaries and the comforts of life are abundantly furnished,
and at a reasonable rate; and that the expense of maintaining a
family is materially lessened, by the constant and large supply of
fish, brought into the town directly, or from the adjoining fishing
station of Cellardyke.
  Ecclesiastical State.-The church is most conveniently situated
in a large burying-ground, which is surrounded by an excellent
wall. It was built in 1634; the spire was ten years later in being
completed; and within it is the bell bearing to have been a gift
from Andrew Strang, shipmaster. The roof of the church was.
repaired many years ago; and in 1834 it underwent a thoroti-ali
repair internally, being entirely re-seated in the most commodious
form, and having the pulpit placed in one end and a gallery in the
otber:-altogetber, it is now probably one of the most elegant
country churches anywhere to be seen. It was originally built by
subscriptions, donations, and the personal labour of some of the
parishioners ; and has been'upheld out of the seat rent fund, care-
fully husbanded by the kirk-session. The late repair was executed
by means of that fund, and a sum borrowed on the security of the
seat rents and it must be observed, that, there being no beritors
in the parish, and the town poor, had the fund alluded to not
existed,it does not appear how that repair could have been ef-
fected.And it must also be stated, to the credit of the kirk-
session,that they resisted, some vears ago, an attempt to wrest
from them the management of the seat-rents, and established their
right, and have ever exercised it in a manner satisfactory to the
whole community. The church is now seated for 630; the high-
est price of sittings is two shillings, and the lowest Dinepence
each; the free sittings are intentionally very few' that the indi-
gent may not feel themselves degraded to the level of absolute
pauperism. Within the church, and placed in the south wall, is
a monument, supposed to be to the memory of one of the former
ministers of the parish, Mr William Mon

