
     Statistical Account

   Climate.-In the valley the air is usually dry, mild, and
of an agreeable freshness; on the higher grounds, it is often
moist and chilly.  This district, in common with all the
country lying along the coast of the Atlantic, is subject to
frequent showers from the west; but the air is rarely loaded
with fogs, and the average quantity of rain throughout the
year, it is supposed, does not exceed that on the other side of
the island.  The rains from the east are less frequent, but
usually more continued.  In autumn, they often damage and
endanger the crops; but long habit has taught the farmer
activity and skill in counteracting the evils of the climate.

   State of Agriculture and Pasturage.-The mode of cultiva-
tion, and implements of agriculture employed in this district,
present nothing worthy of particular notice.  It is not above
thirty years since the slovenly and unproductive system of
husbandry, which so long disgraced the whole of Scotland,
first began in this parish to give way to a more spirited and
skillful practice.  Within that period, all the arable, and a
great part of the pasture, lands have been inclosed.-The
plentiful use of lime, marl, and other manures have been
adopted with great effect;-a more judicious and profitable
rotation of crops has been followed;-and both hay and pa-
sture have been much improved by the culture of artificial
grasses.  Notwithstanding the superiority of the present sys-
tem of management, over that which formerly prevailed,
there is little reason to doubt that it is still very far from
having attained that degree of perfection, to which increa-
sing experience and wealth may probably carry it, even in a
district not naturally the most fertile.  Hitherto, however,
improvement, in the several branches of husbandry, and in
the general state of the country, has advanced as rapidly as
can be expected in a district where the accumulation of stock


