
     of Langholm.

buted more to destroy that spirit of contentment and in-
dustry, that sobriety and decency of manners, which, not 20 
years ago, so peculiarly characterized the peasantry of
Scotland, than the unlimited introduction of distilleries.
It is a painful reflection to every feeling mind, to every
mind interested in the happiness of mankind, that the
tradesman and the manufacturer, who, with the third, nay 
scarcely the fourth part, of the money they can now earn,
then lived comfortably, and made provisions for themselves
and families against the days of adversity and old age,
should now, from the immoderate use of distilled spirits,
instead of being useful members of society, fall, too often,
early victims to its baneful influence.  Had all the sabled
ills omitted from Pandora's box been realized, they could
not have produced more deplorable effects, than when 
whisky, of all other liquors the most subversive of the 
health, the industry, and the morals of the people, became 
so cheap and so common as to supersede the drinking of 
beer, the good old wholesome beverage of our fathers, 
Religion, morality, health, and industry, are the dreadful
sacrifices; and till the British Legislature, following the ex-
ample of Ireland, shall interpose, by laying a tax upon it 
amounting to a prohibition, they will daily increase.  The
writer of these remarks, if he knows himself, is neither a 
bigot of social relaxation and convivial enjoyment; but if,
in the smallest degree, he could be instrumental in rousing
those who are vested with power, to stand forth, and stem
the torrent that threatens immediate destruction to human
happiness, he will disregard the imputations.  Among
many other woeful instances of its rapid and alarming pro-
gress, it consists with his knowledge, not in one instance,
but in many, that families clothed in rags, and ready to
perish with danger, have converted their first charitable do


