
     General Appendix to [Vol. iv.

claimed against this mode, as tying up a proprietor's hands
from the management of his estate; I am confident that Mr.
Buchan and his heirs will in the end be great gainers by his
management.  In place of a set of poor tenants, who were
scarcely able to pay their rents and earn a scanty subsistence,
and at the end of their-leases went off in arrears to the pro-
prietor, and left their farms in worse condition than they en-
tered with them, he, in his own time, has the satisfaction of
seeing a thriving tenantry, and his lands daily improving-a
sure rental in place of a nominal one-and, at the end of
there leases, the rents will be higher than they would have
risen if let under short leases-the fields in a much higher
state of cultivation, and consequently worth a still greater
advance of rent.
   Among the farms let under long leases, I must not omit to
mention Tipperty, a farm consisting of nearly 500 acres, the
property of Mr. Turner of Menie.  This farm, about 12 years
ago, was let for 57 years to a gentleman, who sold the lease
in 1793.  The lease was purchased at a public sale, by a
gentleman from Angus, who has erected upon it a most ex-
cellent steading of offices, with a threshing machine, a meal
mill, and barley mill, all driven by water, and is now carry-
ing on the improvement of it with great spirit and judgment.
In Summer 1795, he had nearly 100 acres of fallow, but the
wetness of that season was very unfavourable to an undertak-
ing of such magnitude, especially considering the ruggedness
and wildness which he had to overcome.  Last Summer he
did not attempt so much, and has got his fallow field com-
pletely dressed and manured.  I sincerely hope that this gen-
tleman's spirited exertions will be crowned with success, for
his own sake and the sake of the country in general.-What
a pity it is that so many of our proprietors are so averse to
granting long leases, and that our legislature will not do away


