
     Statistical Account

walls, and 24 feet within them.  In the lowest story of it
we find 3 arrow holes; in the second story 4; and in the
third story 8 or 9, all of them faced with free-stone, 2 1/2
inches wide on the outside, and extending to the breadth of
7 feet within, and 6 feet high.  There is a chimney in the
middle story of each tower, large, and running through the
wall obliquely, and also a window opening to the inner court
of the building, and a door on each side, leading to the top
of the adjoining walls, by means of which all the towers and
ramparts could easily communicate with one another.
   The middle story of each tower seems to have been allot-
ted for the principal people to occupy, as it was furnished
with a spacious window and a chimney; but the lower sto-
ries had no light, except what came in by the arrow-holes,
unless the door was open which led into the inner court.
The whole building, ramparts, and towers, would require
from 500 to 600 men to defend it, besides reserves; but the
number of troops that might occupy it cannot be exactly
known, as the curtains of the ramparts, outside and inside,
are perforated in many places, probably for beams of wood
to form a shade, under which men or cattle might lodge in
safety.
   From the name of the western tower, it is probable that
this castle was occupied by the Cummings in the time of
Edward I.  of England, when they were most powerful; and,
previous to that period, by the Thanes of Lochaber, among
others by the noted Bancho, predecessor of the race of
Stewart.  There is a tradition, that this castle was once a royal
residence, and that the famous league betwixt Charles the
Great of France, and Achaius King of Scots, had been figu-
ed there, on the part of the Scotch Monarchs about the last
years of the 8th century.  But this point can be best deter-
mined by those who have access to our ancient records.


