
     General Appendix to [Vol. vi.

upon their fields, some acres of which they, for that end,
left unsown.  Here it lay till May or June; when, being
thoroughly dry, it was burnt to ashes to serve as a manure.
By this means they added to their farms about half a rood
of land yearly.  But this plan proved unsuccessful; for by
the repeated application of these ashes, the soil was ren-
dered so loose that the crops generally failed.  2dly, Many
farmers were wont to trench down the low moss, and to cover
it furrow deep with clay taken out of the trench.  This,
though commendable as an attempt to improve, proved
likewise an unavailing method; because in a dry season the
superficial covering of clay retains so little moisture that
the crop commonly fails.
   It has been attempted to cover the moss with clay brought
from the adjacent grounds.  But What from the necessary
impoverishment of the ground from which the clay was car-
ried, and the softness of the moss, this was soon found to be
impracticable.
   Draining has also been proposed as another mode of im-
provement; and it must be acknowledged, that, by means of
draining, many mosses have been converted both into arable
and meadow grounds, which in the end became interesting
improvements.  But in a moss, such as that of Kincardine,
this method would be ineffectual; as for several feet deep it
is of such a nature, that upon being dry and divided into
parts, it would blow with the wind like chaff; and when
thrown aside in the operation of digging peats, it lies for
years without producing a single Vegetable, except only a few
plants of sorrel.
   Hence it is evident, that all attempts to improve this moss
must ever prove abortive; and that the object to be had in
view is the acquisition of the valuable soil lying underneath


