
<APPENDIX>

General Appendix to [Vol. i,

   The village of Sprouston, that at present contains about
300 persons, had, about sixty-five years ago, a common called
Haddenrig, to which certain indwellers, distinguished at pre-
sent by the name of the Duke of Roxburgh's cottars, (much
more numerous formerly, and who still pay a small rent year-
ly for their houses, had by immemorial usage a right to pas-
ture sheep and cows.  But the Duke's grandfather deprived
them of this right, and converted the common into farms, for
which the present Duke draws a very considerable rent.  Ma-
ny of these cottars have been deprived of their houses, and
some of the houses are in ruins; and those that still remain
pay a higher rent than they did when they had the right of
the common.
   I believe it is certain that the minister received money
from these inhabitants for the tythe of lamb and wool.  But
the then incumbent, Mr Baxter, being aged, and having it
in view to obtain the settlement for his son, my predecessor,
in which he prevailed, gave no opposition.  This leads me to
mention one of my predecessors, Mr Ninian Hume, who
was deposed soon after the rebellion in 1715 for Cuppored Ja-
cobitism.  He had a wonderful talent for acquiring wealth;
having left at his death L. 30,000 in landed property.  When
minister here, he farmed land, and in particular a field con-
tiguous to my glebe, a very valuable tract, which was inun-
dated by the Tweed in the year 1708.  On this field rested
vast quantities of corn, brought down the river from remote
places, which none claiming, he sold to the value of L. 50
sterling.  This field, as well as a good part of my glebe, I
have seen all covered with water.  The last great flood has
rendered perfectly useless a part of the minister's grass ground
for which he has not been able, as yet, to obtain any com-
pensation.


