
               PARISH OF ABERCORN.

PRESBYTERY OF LINLITHGOW, SYNOD OF LOTHIAN & TWEEDDALE.

THE REV. LEWIS H. IRVING, MINISTER.

           I.-TOPOGRAPHY AND NATURAL HISTORY.
   Name, Boundaries, &c.-THIS parish derives its name, written
formerly Abercorne, from the ancient monastery of Aebercurnig.
The confluence of a rivulet, called the Cornie burn, with another
stream at the bottom of the high bank on which the church stands,
points out the probable origin of the name as descriptive of the
site of the monastery.
   The parish extends 4 1/2 miles in extreme length, and 2 1/2 miles
in extreme breadth, containing 7.03 square miles. It is of a rect-
angular figure, stretching east and west, and bounded on the east
by Dalmeny; on the south, by Kirkliston, Auldeathie, (an art-
nexed portion of Dalmeny,) and Ecclesmachan; on the west, by
Linlithgow and Carriden; and on the north, by the Firth of Forth.
   The surface is exceedingly diversified, but although broken in-
to, many picturesque undulations and irregularities, no part of it
attains an elevation above 350 feet. Two points alonel have re-
ceived the name of hills, Binns hill and Priestinch hill. The for-
mer, at the western extremity of the parish, is arable to the sun-
mit: insulated and rising with uninterrupted slope from the sea,
although of no great height, it commands an extensive and mag-
nificent view of the shores of the Frith, and the circumjacent
country, with a bounding amphitheatre of hills, forined by the
Grampian, Ochil Pentland,  and Campsie ranger. Priestinch
hill, on the south border of the parish is a precipitous mass of
trap rock surrounded on three sides by a green bog called the

                                3


