
     of Wick.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The most remarkable pheno-
menon that has been observed here was about eight years a-
go, when what is called a corona or halo superbly bright and
luminous, consisting of two bows, concentric, with an appa-
rent interval of from three to four feet between them, and
extending over a great part of the hemisphere was distinctly
seen.-There are several flag stones, from 8 to 9 feet high
above the ground, which tradition says, were erected to com-
memorate battles fought between the natives and the Danes.
Wherever a Danish General or renowned warrior sell, this
rough monument was erected to his memory.-Hard by is a
cairn of stones, called Earl Alexander's Hillock, where, it is
said, he was slain; a man, who lived at Thrumster to an
hundred years of age, found, about the end of last century, a
golden chain, which, in a year of famine, he sold to a bailie
in Wick, for a boll of oat meal.-The crop, in 1782, afford-
ed a most melancholy spectacle, being, while quite green,
covered with frost and snow, in the beginning of October.
Some families, in this and the neighbouring parishes, who
were most reduced, went to Lanark for employment at the
cotton manufactures there, but, not meeting with the success
they expected, were obliged to return or starve.  A few
emigrated to America, in consequence of the encouragement
they expected to meet with there, in which, however, they
were miserably disappointed.  So wretched a crop was una-
voidably succeeded by a dearth in 1783, when one family
could scarcely furnish another, though in a plentiful country
for victual, with any quantity however small.  The effects of
that failure would have been very ferious indeed, had it not
been for a most seasonable and providential aid from govern-
ment; in consequence of which none died of want.-In a
road lately made to the Broadhaven by the face of a bank,
species of bluish brittle stone has been found, resembling


