
     Statistical Account

above 40 persons, to the amount of above 8 L. Sterling at
each time.  These two large distributions, are intended to
enable the poor to purchase shoes and coals, and to pay their
house rent, which articles are now become much more ex-
pensive than they were formerly.  The funds for all this arise
almost wholly from the collections at the church door, from
collections at private baptisms and marriages, in whatever
part of the parish they are celebrated, and also from the pri-
vate charities of the rich, who, to their praise, do, in times
of scarcity, liberally contribute to this humane purpose.  But
if the poor of the parish have greatly increased, so these funds
have to a proportionable degree also increased.  The session
has not, therefore, been yet obliged to make application to
non-residing heritors; and it has been, and is the determined
purpose of all concerned in the management of the poor, to
keep at the utmost distance from legal operation in their sup-
ply.  No doubt this can be more easily done in a parish like
this, where there are no populous towns or villages, or num-
bers of manufacturing people.  The voluntary contribution,
would, however, be much greater, were it not for the great
number of Irish vagrants and beggars, who dailly travel the
great post road from Ayr to Port Patrick; near to which, on
both sides, stands the greater number of the farmers houses;
which are oppressed by the importunate and violent cravings
of these beggars.  It were to be wished that the police of the
country would remedy this evil.

