
     of Minnigaff.

about 400 ton of ore per annum to Mr Heron, and those who
were in company with him.  At present, it yields them only
about 30.  It was found that the veins, leaving Mr Heron's
lands, went into those of Mr Dunbar of Machermore; and
there it is at present successfully wrought.  Some years it
produces from four to five hundred tons of ore.  The ore,
when smelted, yields, for every three tons, two of lead.  It
brings at market 18 L. per ton when smelted, and 8 L. in ore.
It has been assayed, but will not bear the expence of extrac-
ting the silver.  It is not carried above a mile by land till
they put it on board small vessels; and then they generally
carry it to Chester, to which place they can run, with a fair
wind, in 18 or 20 hours.

   Woods.-But lead is not the only production of our hills.
Some of them, especially those in the vicinity of the Cree,
are covered with useful wood.  There is no land in the pa-
rish more productive than that which is employed in this
manner.  The greater part of this belongs, to the Earl of
Galloway, who lately sold the cutting of his woods for 6000
guineas, although the trees were then only from 25 to 30
years old.  The wood is mostly charred, except a very-small
quantity which is used in the neighbourhood for domestic
purposes.  Besides Lord Galloway's, there is a good deal of
other wood in the parish; but its value has not been so well
ascertained.  In all these woods, the most predominant spe-
cies of trees are the oak and the ash.

   Sheep, Black Cattle, Horses, etc.-Sheep are certainly the
staple commodity of this parish.  It is believed that their
number is not less than thirty thousand.  Although, from the
shyness of the farmers to give an exact account of their stock,
the information on this subject cannot be perfectly accurate,


