  	                  METHLICK.                       973

   The gift of the kirk land in this parish may be traced as far
back as the reign of Robert II., who, by a charter dated the 16th
June 1373, confirms a charter by Walter de Menteith de Pedina-
calan to the Virgin Mary and the parish church of St Devenick of
Methlick, and the vicar of the same, of a piece of land called the
Haulch, bounded on the one side by the water of Ethyon, stretch-
ing, on one hand, from the ford of the burn of Melok to the ford
which is called Cloy or Clochy on the other.  It is probable that
the present glebe is very nearly the piece of land referred to in
the charter just quoted.  For it is bounded, on the one side, by
the river Ythan ; at one extremity of it, there is the burn of
Methlick, at the entrance of which, into the Ythan, there was for-
merly a ford, now superseded by a bridge, and a little below the
other extremity there is another ford, which is now called Golyford
or Cloverickford, evidently corruptions of Cloy or Clochyford, the
name mentioned in the foresaid ancient charter.  This haugh or
parson's croft was transferred by the chapter of the cathedral of
Aberdeen along with the parish church, to King's College in 1586,
at the instance of Principal Walter Stewart; and they remained in
the hands of that institution till they were conveyed, along with
the patronage, to the Earl of Aberdeen, in the middle of last cen-
tury.
   The present glebe, inclusive of the garden and site of the
manse and offices, measures 6 3/4 acres imperial, and is worth L.7
or L.8 annually.
   The stipend is L.80 in money; 64 bolls of meal, and 64 bolls
of bear, the meal and bear being payable at the fiar prices of the
year.  There is no Episcopalian, Catholic, Seceding, or other
Dissenting chapel in the parish ; but there are twelve Dissenting
and three Episcopalian families that go to meeting-houses in the
neighbouring parishes, and all the other families, amounting to
342, attend the parish church ; at which the average number of
the congregation is about 600, and that of the communicants is
650.
   Education.-In the parochial school, Latin, Greek, and mathe-
matics are taught when required, in addition to the ordinary
branches of reading, writing, and arithmetic.  The teacher has a
salary of L.28, besides an annual gratuity of L.5 from the Earl of
Aberdeen; school-fees and other dues, L.40; allowance from Mr
Dick's Trustees, at an average L.35; from Moir's Mortification,


