
     of Airth.

   Shipping.-There are at present 8 vessels belonging to the
parish.  Some of these are employed in the Baltic, others in
the coal and lime trade.

   Church and Schools.-The stipend is 69 bolls of meal and
barley, and about 1000 merks of money, with a manse, and
glebe of 10 acres of good arable ground.  The patron of the
parish is James Graham, Esq; of Airth.- There is an esta-
blished school in it, and a schoolmaster, who has a dwel-
ling house and legal salary allowed him by the heritors.
The number of scholars, taught in it, is between 70 and 80.
There are some other schools of letter note; but the masters
of these have no allowance, except what is given them by
the parents of those children whom they instruct.

   Heritors.-There are 5 heritors, who reside constantly or
occasionally in the parish, and 6 who do not reside in it.
Besides these, there are several letter heritors and seuers.

   Poor.-The number of poor supplied weekly is 30; and of
occasional poor, there are about 12.  They are supplied by an
annual assessment, which the heritors voluntarily impose upon
themselves, the one half of which is paid by them, and the
other by their tenants.  By the interest of money, the assess-
ment, and the weekly collections, the sum given annually to
the poor is between 80 l. and 90 l. Sterling.

   Antiquities.-There are 3 ancient towers in the parish, one
at Airth, another at Dunmore, and a third at Powfouls.  The
tower lived at the beginning of the 14th century.  If credit
can be given to Blind Harry's poetical history of that hero,
he says, that Wallace came privily into this tower, flew the


