
     of Thurso.

from 700 to 700 kitts.  This, of course, lessens the quan-
tity of pickled salmon packed in barrels, and sent to foreign
markets; but still there are about 250 barrels of salmon
shipped annually at Thurso, which, however, includes the
salmon taken in some rivers on the northern coast of the
county of Sutherland.  Until the last season, the Thurso
salmon were all boiled and kitted at Wick, after being car-
ried 20 miles over land on horseback.  The expence neces-
sarily attending so long a carriage was incurred to avoid
the navigation of the Pentland Frith, which the smack-
masters, until of late years, considered a hazardous under-
taking; bt now they make no account of it, and the fish
are boiled and kitted in a neat and commodious boil-house,
lately erected on the river side, on the east side of the har-
bour of Thurso.

   SECT. II.  White Fishery.-It has been shewn in the
preceeding chapter, that fish constitutes a principal part of the
export trade of the port of Thurfo, in the account of which,
the amount of fish annually exported is set down at an ave-
rage of L. 13824, 10 s.  The calculation is made from the
quantities of the different kinds of fish exported, taken from
the books kept at the Customhouse, and the foresaid aggre-
gate sum is composed of the following particulars:

<TABLE>

                                                L.    s.  d.
1ft, Salmon barrelled and kitted, valued at   1610    0   0
2d, Herrings, white and red, at               9912   10   0
3d, Wet cod and ling, at                      1200    0   0
4th, Dry cod and ling, at                     1100    0   0
                                              -------------
                       In all, as before, L. 13824   10   0

</TABLE>

   Nor can this calculation be thought exaggerated by any
means, when it is considered, that on an average of the last


