
     Statistical Account

The most entire is a British one at Dry'sdale gate, occupy
ing about 2 acres of ground, commanding a most extensive
prospect; its counterpart is a large Roman one about 1/2
mile due E. interrupted by a moor, being the place cele-
brated for the bloody battle between the army of Julius
Agricola, and the forces of Corbredus Galdus, the 21st king
of the Scots, about the end of the 1st century.  There are
plain traces of the great Roman road, from the borders of
England up to the vast encampments on the neighhouring
beauteous and conspicuous round green hill of Burn'swork,
and thence crossing this parish at Lockerbie to Dry'sdale
gate, and up to the Gallaberry above mentioned, where it
divided, one branch leading up through.  Annandale, by
Moffat, to Tweeddale and Clydesdale; the other branch
crossing the Annan, touched an entire and beautiful double
fort on the northern margin of one of the Lochmaben lakes,
called the Woody Castle, thence passed up the west side of
the water of Ae, through Nith'sdale to the west country.

     Hills, Quarries, etc.-Upon the banks of the Currie,
there is an eminence called Currie Law, the term signifying
a summit commanding a large and deep view below.  There
is a range of beauteous green hills running from N. to S.
for about 3 miles, dividing the Highland from the low part
of the parish.  The Highland or outerly part, had been
once a parish by itself, called Little Hutton, in contrast to
the large parish of Hutton conterminous.  The church and
burying ground had been at Halldykes, for in the garden,
human bones are frequently dug up; but there is neither
record nor tradition of the time of its annexation to Dry's-
dale.  Besides this church of Little Hutton, there were two
other places of public worship in the parish, viz.  The cha-
pel of Beekton, supposed to belong to the Knight's Tem-
plars, lying 1/2 mile N. W. of Lockerbie, where the traces


