
     Statistical Account

the examination.-The examination for the degrees of Licen-
tiate and of Master was carried on in the same way.

   Obligation.-In the oath taken by one who took the degree
of Master, he came under an obligation de lectura ad bienni-
um; but this, which implied not only his continuing his stu-
dies in the College for two years, but his giving lectures du-
ring that time, was very often dispensed with upon paying a
fine.

   Lectures.-The statues of this faculty suppose that every
master is to give prelections; for they enjoin, that, on the
day in which the dean is chosen, the masters, according to
their seniority, shall name the book upon which they are to
prelect; and that, if two masters choose the same book, the
senior be preferred, unless there be so many hearers that
both may prelect, on the same book, at the same time, in diffe-
rent schools.  But, in the minutes of faculty, there is no men-
tion of any such lectures being proposed, or given by any mas-
ter but the magistri regentes.
   The manner of teaching, and of hearing, is, by the statues,
ordained to be the same as in Bononia and in Pisa.  In many
other things, the practice of some one of the foreign uni-
versities is made the rule; but those of England are never
mentioned.

   Discipline.-Corporeal punishment was sometimes inflicted
upon students in the College of Arts.  For some faults the sta-
tutes order the punishment to be inflicted caligis laxatis.

   Property.-It may appear strange, that this University was
founded without any property in lands, houses, or rents.  It
came into the world as naked as every individual does.-The


