
     Of Kilsinan.

ziers keeping a number of horses, black cattle, and 
sheep, together.  The small white faced Highland kinds
are all gone, which some think is to be regretted, as
they were undoubtedly better mutton, and their wool
infinitely finer than that of others.  They were not
found, however, so profitable, it seems, as they did not
draw such long prices when brought to market.

<TABLE>

   Number of working horses in the parish,         272
           of black cattle come to full growth,   1965
           of sheep ditto,                        5476
           of swine,                                65

</TABLE>

Few of the swine are reared in this parish, but bought
in from other parishes in summer or beginning of har-
vest; and they are seldom kept longer than till win-
ter, when they are sattened mostly upon potatoes, and 
killed.

   Coal and Fuel.-The fuel made use of in this parish
by all the common people, and mostly by the better fort,
is peats; which, as they lie generally at an exceeding
great distance, and the roads to the mosses bad, are re-
markably troublesome and expensive.  The mode of 
carrying them home is, by many, in bags in back loads,
by some in creels upon cars or sledges; and by a few,
where the ground is more level, or where the roads
happen to be better attended to, upon carts.  The mak-
ing, preparing, and leading of these peats consumes the
greatest part of the people's time in summer; and too 
often, in spite of all their labour and attention, they
lose the most of them, from the wetness of the climate,
and the softnest of the roads.  The lairds, and others
who can afford it, have generally some coals besides
their peats, and some burn very little but coals. These


