
     Statistical Account

after they pass Kinnaird's Head, the entry to the Moray
Fristh.

   Rivers.-The largest river in the parish is Moriston,
which rises in Glensheal, and, passing through Loch Cluani,
falls into Lochness near the House of Major Grant of Glen-
moriston, where, a little above its entry into the Loch, it
forms a grand cascade.  Here there is a salmon-fishing,
which, in some seanson, turns to pretty good account; but,
owing to the rock over which the river falls, the fish are
prevented from getting up the country, and of course the
fishing is much less productive.

   Two rivers rise in the hills of Urquhart, the Enneric
and Coiltie, and fall into Lochness near each other, a
little below the church of Kilmore.  In speats or floods
some salmon are found in them; but the whole rivers, and
also the different burns or rivulets, contain great plenty of
trout.

   Lakes.-Lochness having been described in the Statisti-
cal Accounts of some of the neighbouring parishes, and be-
ing an object so well known, it is needless to say any thing
regarding it here.
   The parish contains, (as most Highland countries do), a
number of inferior fresh-water lakers, which abound wiht
fish, as trout, pike, etc.  Regarding one small lake, near
the top of Mealfuarmhonei, a vulgar error has prevailed,
that it was unfathomable; but its depth has been ascertain-
ed by the minister of the parish and another gentleman, and
found to be very inconsiderable.
   Loch Meikly, in the middle of the braes of Urquhart, is
a beautiful sheet of water, about  a mile long, and half a


