
     of Aberdeen.

though resembling, as sprung from a common stock, are not
so far coincident as that the tongue of the one nation should
be intelligible to the other.  That our Scotch Highlanders
are originally from Gaul is manifest from the name Gaelic
which they have always given to the language they speak.
This is not less evident of the ancient Britons, from the
name universally given to the country, to which, after the
Anglo-Saxon conquest, they were obliged to confine them-
selves.  It was called Gallia, which in the Saxon idiom is
Wales; the people Galli, Welchmen.  For let it be obser-
ved, that those who spoke any of the Teutonic dialects al-
ways changed the hard g of the southern languages into w.
Thus, of the French guerre they made war; from their
guardien, we have warden; their Guillamme is our William;
and Gualtere is Walter.  And conversely, he who is in
Britain Prince oaf Wales, is in France le Prince de Galles.
To say, therefore, that one speaks Welsh, must have denoted
the same originally as he speaks Gaulish, or Gaelic, no
other alteration being made on the word than what the
adapting of it to the Saxon pronounciation rendered neces-
sary.  It is, therefore, no improvement in moderns to con-
found with it the dialect of the Highlanders, by giving it
the name Gaelic; for though this application may be justi-
fied from considering the origin of the people, yet as the
more familiar name Erse serves both to discriminate the
dialect of our Highlanders from the ancient British, and to
point out its coincidence with the Irish, it is every way
preferable.  It is not meant to intimate, that those names
which have commonly been considered as of Irish extrac-
tion, are all originally British.  Some of them are mani-
festly of the former dialect.  In Erse, the word inver, for
example, corresponds to the British aber.  Now we have
several invers, as Inverness, Inverury, Inverbervy, all un-
questionably from the Erse; only with regard to there, we


