
     of Orphir.

lief, which hitherto they have not done, it would redound
much to their honour.

   Antiquities.-In the church-yard are the remains of an
ancient building, called the Girth-house, to which great an-
tiquity is ascribed.  It is a rotundo of 18 feet in diameter,
and 20 feet high; open at top; and on the east side is a
vaulted concavity, where probably the altar stood, with a
slit in the wall to admit the light; two-thirds of it have
been taken down to repair the parish church.  The walls
are thick, and consist of stones, strongly cemented with
lime.  From its resemblance to the Pantheon, some have
ascribed this building to the Romans; but, in all probabi-
lity, it has been a Popish chapel, dedicated by the piety of
its founder to some favourite saint.
   In the district of Swambister, or Suenobister, are the
ruins of an ancient tower, of a circular form, and about 180
feet in circumference; and once, probably, the residence of
Sueno Boerstrop, who was killed by the famous Sueno
Asterisae, during a Christmas entertainment in this parish,
at the house of Paul, one of the Norwegian Counts of Ork-
ney; of which a very particular account is given by the
Icelandick historian of Saga Orcadensis.
   In the district of Tuskibster, at a place called Obah, re-
sided several of the ancient Counts of Orkney; particularly
Harold, who was poisoned by his aunt Fraukark, and the
aforementioned Paul, who was put to death by his own sis-
ter, the first Countess of Athol.  The situation is so circumstan-
tially described by the Icelandick historian, as not to admit
of a doubt; although, except an ancient chapel and burying-
ground, alluded to by the historian, scarce a vestige of the
ruin remains.  Romish chapels are to be met with in every
district of the parish; also a great many barrows or tumuli;
but none of them have been opened.
     VOL. XIX. 3 G


