
     Statistical Account

the neighbourhood were taught to spin fine yarn, twining
mills were erected, correspondences were established, and a
profitable business was carried on.  Bargarron thread be-
came extensively known, and, being ascertained by a stamp,
bore a good price.  From the instructions of the family of
Bargarron, a few families in the neighbourhood engaged
in the same business, and continued in it for a number of
years.  It was not to be expected, however, that a manu-
facture of that kind could be confined to so small a district,
or would be allowed to remain in so few hands for a great
length of time.  The secrets of the business were gradually
divulged by apprentices and assistants.  A Mr Pollock in
Paisley availed himself of these communications, and laid
the foundation of the well established and extensive manu-
facture of thread, which has ever since been carried on in
that town.  From that time, the women in this neighbour-
hood have continued to practice the spinning of fine yarn,
which they disposed of to the Paisley manufacturers.  With-
in this twelvemonth, however, many of them have laid a-
side the wheel, leaving that useful implement of domestic
industry to be occupied by those of higher rank, and have
applied themselves to the easier, the more elegant, and at
present the more profitable employment of flowering
muslins.

