
     Statistical Account of the

   Dr Arthur Johnston, author of the well known translation
of the Psalms, and other elegant Latin poems.  Having re-
ceived the degree of M. D. at Padua in 1610, he afterwards
settled in France, where he remained until about 1633, and
then returning to his own country, was apppointed physician
to King Charles the I.  He died at Oxford in 1641.
   Dr Gilbert Burnett, Bishop of Salisbury, the well known
author of many works, whose valuable donations to the Col-
lege were formerly mentioned.
   Dr James Gregory, professor of mathematics in the Uni-
versity of St Andrews, and afterwards in that of Edinburgh,
and inventor of the reflecting telescope, named from him,
the Gregorian.
   Dr Robert Morison, an eminent writer on botany, of
which he was appointed regius professor in the University of
Oxford.
   Mr James Gibbs, the architect, who gave the designs for
many churches in London, and other public buildings, par-
ticularly for the Radcliffe library at Oxford, which is much
admired.
   Dr John Arbuthnott, physician to Queen Ann, the inti-
mate friend of Pope and Swift, and author of several works.
   Dr James Mackenzie, physician in London, author of the
History of Health, etc.
   Mr Colin Maclaurin, who held the office of professor of
mathematics in this University, and afterwards removed to
Edinburgh in 1727.
   The late George Earl Marischal of Scotland, whose estates
were forfeited in 1715, and who died at Berlin in 1778, and
his brother,
   General Keith, field marischal in the service of Prussia,
who was killed at the battle of Hochkirchen in 1758.


