
     of Methlick.

   Population.-The amount of the population is about 1035.
Dr Webster's slate is 1385.  The males are 482, females
553.

<TABLE>

The annual average of birth is     20   Weavers       5
                      deaths,      17   Shoemakers,   7
                      marriages,   10   Smiths,       4
Heritors,                           1   Tailors,      6
Farmers,                           50   Houses,     209
Wrights,                            5

</TABLE>

   The causes of depopulation may be, 1st, The rents are
much raised upon the farmers, who do all they can to make
their subtenants pay the additional rent.  2dly, Servants
wages are so high, that people who need them must put up
with sewer than formerly.  3dly, The number of manu-
factures and manufacturers is so much increased, as to draw
a great many hands from the country into towns, so that
servants for agriculture are scarce.

   Stipend, School, Poor, etc.-The church was built in 1780,
and the manse in 1734.  The stipend is L. 27:14:2 Ster-
ling, 3 chalders of meal, 5 bolls and 5 pecks of bear.-
There is only 1 school, and the schollmaster's emoluments
are very small.-The number of the poor is 40.  The an-
nual amount of the contributions is L. 20; this includes pe-
nalties paid by delinquents; and there is a mortification
for behoof of the poor of L. 333:6:8, bequeathed by Dr
Charles Maitland.  There is besides L. 35 belonging to the
session, for behoof of the poor.  A legacy of L. 20 was left
lately.

   Miscellaneous Observations.-The price of every article of
provisions is doubled within 40 years past.-The wages of
day-labourers are also doubled within the above time, and
are at present from 8 d. to 1 s. with their victuals.  The
     VOL. IV     S f


