
     Statistical Account

poration of vegetable effluvia must impregnate the atmos-
phere; which, combined with the vapours from the salt-pans
in the immediate neighbourhood, will correct any septic qua-
lity in the air.  The walks about the town, are romantic and
inviting; the walks on the quays, and on the west beach,
are, at all times, dry and pleasant, much fitted to promote
health and longevity.  But here, as in many other places
specified in the Statistical Account of Scotland, tippling
houses are too numerous.  It may be seriously regretted, by
the friends of religion and virtue, that so many people are
licensed to vend ardent spirits in every town and village.
Such places ensnare the innocent, become the haunts of the
idle and dissipated, and ruin annually the health and morals
of thousands of mankind.  Perhaps, if the malt-tax were
abolished, and an adequate additional tax laid upon British
spirits, as in the days of our fathers, malt-liquor would be
produced, to nourish and strengthen, instead of whisky,
which wastes and enseebles the constitution: Or, were Jus-
tices of the Peace to limit the number of licences issued,
by apportioning them to the population of each place, and
by granting them to persons of a respectable character, a
multitude of grievances would be redressed, to which the
innocent spouse, and the helpless insant are daily expo-
sed.

     "O' a' the ills poor Caledonia
     "E'er yet preed, or e'er will taste,
     "Brew'd in hell's black Pandemonia,
     "Whisky's ill, will skaith her maist*."

<FOOTNOTE>

*Scotland's Skaith, a little poem of real merit.


