
68				SHETLAND.

the crops having also failed, the people are in a very reduced
state. In such circumstances, rents can hardly be paid either for
lands or houses. Yet, with a very few exceptions, no tenant has
been turned out of his possession by his landlord. The rents are
at present all paid in money. There are 1637 merks land in this
ministry. The rental is about L.2000. The arable ground will
measure rather more than 2500 acres.
   Exports and Imports.-It is impossible to separate the exports
and imports of this parish from the rest of Shetland. Some of the
exports of these islands, as extracted from the Custom-House books,
are as follows:-

<TABLE>
	  Year 1823.		Year 1824.	Year 1825.
	Fish, tons,   1866	   1284		  1575
	Oil, barrels,  740	    950		  1243
	Beef, barrels, 140			   433
	Oxen,			    367		  1250
	Sheep,			     69		    76
	Kelp, tons,    260			   442
	Ponies,			     92		   140
	Butter, barrels,	    106	  	   119
	Chromate of iron, tons			   180
   The following are some of the imports; oatmeal, 2152 1/2 bolls;
tobacco, 4788 lbs.; spirits, 14,830 gallons; coffee, 1419 lbs.;
snuff, 1073 lbs.; tea, 17,983.
   The late Mr Mouat of Garth states, that, in 1831, there were
in Shetland 25,000 acres cultivated land,-400,000, uncultivated,
-the rental being from L. 26,000 to L. 28,000. He reckons the
gross proceeds of lands, fishery, trade, &c. to be L.300,000 per
annum.
   Lakes.-There are many lakes in this parish, abounding with
fish. The principal ones are the lakes of Tingwall, Asta, and
Girlsta in Tingwall; and the lake of Strom in Whiteness. In a
small holm in Tingwall lake, the Grand Foud held his Court.
Girlsta lake is celebrated by Torfaeus. He says, it was called
Geirbildar-vatn, from the daughter of Floke, a northern pirate,
having been lost in it. In the lake of,Strom, there are the re-
mains of a small castle, said to have been inhabited by a son of
the Earl of Orkney, who was afterwards slain, by order of his fa-
ther, at the standing-stone of Tingwall.
			V.-PAROCHIAL ECONOMY.
   Harbours.-This parish is better provided with harbours than
any in Shetland. To the north, are Deal's Voe, Laxfirth Voe,

<FOOTNOTE>See Peterkin's Letter to George Traill, Esq. M. P.                 See Hibbert, p. 460.
    See Hibbert, pp. 268 and 641.


