
     of Fodderty.

Several men and women are now residing in the parish who
call themselves near 90 years of age.

   Distempers.-There are no distempers peculiar to this pa-
rish, except such as are common to the neighbouring places,
The small-pox often rages here, and frequently proves mor-
tal, as inoculation has never been attempted except by a very
few families, who recently introduced it with success.  The
prejudice of the people is, however, very strong against it.

   Minerals.-There are appearances of coal mines in the
parish.  A person was, some time ago, employed to work a
part of the coal, when it was found to be of a remarkably
inflammable quality; of a clear black colour, so that it ap-
peared to approach nearer to a bituminous substance than to
coal.-There are several mineral springs here, all of which
are of the same quality, and seem to be impregnated with
sulphur.  One of these has, for about 20 years back, been of
some note.  Great numbers of the lower class of people from
the counties of Inverness, Sutherland, and the western dis-
tricts of Ross-shire, have resorted hither, and use the water
of this mineral for all kinds of disorders without exception.
Most benefit has been derived from this mineral by those
troubled with scorbutic complaints, and all kinds of external
sores on the body.  It has been used with success in the gra-
vel and stomach complaints.

   Hills.-The most remarkable hills are, 1 ft, Beuivas, which
is one of the highest hills in Scotland, and lies immediately
to the north of this valley; 2 dly, Knockfallaric.  This hill
is situated on the south side of the valley: Its form is coni-
cal; and the vulgar tradition is, that Fingal had one of his
castles upon the top of it.  What probably gave rise to this


