
     of Banff.

   The church has already cost L. 2400.  The old church
was taken down only last year, excepting an ancient vault-
ed aisle, on the south side, now a burying place of Lord
Banff's family.
   By a late decree of augmentation, the minister's stipend
is 60 bolls barley, 52 bolls meal, L. 63 Sterling money.
In this are included the vicarage tithes converted, and L. 5
as the allowance for communion-elements.
   The glebe, which consists of seven and one half acres, is
a beautiful and fertile field, immediately adjoining the 
town.
   The manse was substantially repaired about three years
ago, and is a comfortable residence.  For this purpose, and
for rebuilding the garden-walls, the heritors most cheerfully
granted L. 250, with and annual allowance  to the present
minister of L. 10, for upholding these repairs.
   The garden contains nearly half and acre of ground, and
is a most productive spot.
   The Earl of Findlater is patron.  The Magistrates also
claim the right of patronage, and have been in habit of for-
mally protecting against his Lordship's presentation.  It is
apprehended, however, that such protest can be of no avail 
in preserving their rights, unless made before the presenta-
tion is received and sustained by the presbytery, a mode
which has not been attended to in this instance.
   Banff is not a collegiate charge, though the numbers of
the people would require, and the funds in the parish are
sufficient to endow, a second minister.  Besides the Esta-
blished Church, there are three places of worship in this 
town, the Episcopal chapel, the church of Relief, and a
Roman Catholic meeting-house.
   From the statement of the Reverend Mr Skinner, late
minister of St Andrews Chapel, the numbers in his charge
amount nearly to 300.  Formerly they were divided, and


