
     Statistical Account

only birds of passage are the cuckoo and the swallow.
Hares are also in great numbers, were they not de-
stroyed by poachers of different description.  And even  
game-keepers may be game-destroyers.

   Minerals, &c.-On the N.  side of the barony of Po-
thelly, there is a free-stone quarry not much wrought,
and a thin seam of coal, both at the banks of the waters
which seperate this parish from that of Stewarton.  In 
the barony of Twowallan, there are 2 lime-stone quar-
ries, both much used.  Colonel Crawford has also free-
stone and lime stone in his lands, and the appearance of
coal.  But all the attempts to get a workable mine have
hitherto, from whatever cause it may have arisen, prov-
ed unsuccessful.  The lime stones in the quarry at Gin-
forth, in the barony of Rowallan, are replete with sea-
shells and other remains of the ancient inhabitants of 
the ocean.  But they are so firmly united with the 
stone, that they cannot be seperated from it without be-
ing greatly mutilated.-Near to the King's Well, in the
same barony is to be found what is called the Scotch-
gale, a species of the myrtle.

   Ecclesiastical State, &c.-None of the greater heritors
reside in the parish; all the inhabitants are farmers or 
tradesmen, and all upon the same footing as to rank and
education.
   The first minister of this parish was Mr. William
Guthrie, justly famous in his time.  He was ordained
in 1644, ejected in 1662, and died in the north in 1665
He was great grandfather to the late Lord President of
the Court of Session, Sir Thomas Miller, to 2 repectable
clergymen now in Ayrshire, and to the venerable and


