
     Statistical Account

quires the aid of powerful machinery.  The greatest dis-
advantage of all is the badness of the present harbour,
which only admits small vessels, is dangerous to take in bad
weather, and in south easterly winds affords but indifferent
shelter.  It has frequently proved fatal to the fishermen,
who often for many days together cannot go out or in with
safety, while boats from the harbours to the westward ex-
perience no inconveniency.  A little to the east of the
town, there is a small bay or opening among the rocks,
called Rome, for what reason is not known, which at a mo-
derate expense might be made an excellent harbour.  It
would have a good depth of water, could be easily taken
in all weathers, would be advantageous for a more perfect
prosecution of the fishery, and of very considerable use to
the coasting vessels, when turning either up or down the
frith in blowing weather.  This is probably the place call-
ed the old barbour in some of the charters belonging to
the town.

   Character of the People.-Of the character of his peo-
ple, a minister ought to speak with caution in a publication
of this kind.  To record their vices would argue impru-
dence, as tending rather to irritate than to reform.  To
trumpet forth their praise would savour of adulation.  In no
material feature of their character do the people here dif-
fer from their neighbouts.  The credulity of former times
with respect to witches is almost extinguished, and the little
superstitious fancies, which so frequently prevail among the
commonalty, are gradually losing ground.  The practice of
inoculating for the small-pox has been much retarded, part-
ly by religious scruples, and partly by the expense of me-
dical aid.  To the cleanness and commodiousness of their
habitations, they are beginning to pay greater attention
than formerly.  When dressed they are decently neat, ra-


