
     Statistical Account

account, there may be 30 or 40 baptisms, through the care-
lessness of the parents and church officer, neglected to be re-
gistered in the above period.-The yearly average of burials
for 6 years, preceding 1790, is 14 1/2.
   There are 8 heritors in the parish.  The number of farmers
is about 35; whereof 12 possess pretty extensive farms, paying
from L. 280 down to L. 70 of yearly rent; and the smaller
farmers pay from L. 70 to L. 10.-There are also about 150 fa-
milies, or houses where families live.  The number of white-
fishers, both old and young, in the sea-towns, is about 18.
There are as many house-carpenters, joiners, taylors, and o-
ther artificers, as are needful for the ordinary supply of the
parish.  There are also about 20 weavers; who are principal-
ly employed in manufacturing sacking and ticking, which are
the ordinary clothes made for sale in this parish.
   All the inhabitants are of the Established church, except 2
men and 4 women Scotch Episcopals, and one man and his
wife of the English church.
   The number of families is thought to be considerably small-
er than it was about 20 years ago.  The reason given for this
is, that since improvements in agriculture began, some of the
farmers occupy more land than their predecessors; for they
think a small farm will not defray the expence of manage-
ment.  For this land they pay a very considerably advanced
rent, and are at a much more considerable expence in improv-
ing it.  This farmer, therefore, cannot let a small parcel of
land, and keep a cow, to a tradesman or mechanic, upon terms
near so low as formerly.  The tradesman grudges to pay what
the farmer thinks his accommodation worth.  The consequence
is, the tradesman retires to a town or village, and the farmer
tills his own fields, and this, perhaps, is for their mutual
comfort and advantage: the farmer, however, will always
give encouragement to ground-labourers, because they are ne-


