
     Statistical Account

great measure, yet, in some places, the soil on one side of
the road is very little different from what it is on the o-
ther.  For moss abounds throughout the parish: and,
where this is the case, the adjacent soil is invariably wet,
and the mould of a black or hazelly colour.  The principal
crops are oats and barley-big, with some pease.  Every
farmer has also a field of turnip, from 1 to 6 acres, accord-
ing to the extent of his farm.  These are given to the cat-
tle through the winter, and sometimes used in fattening
them for the butcher.  Potatoes and flax are also raised,
but only in small quantities, and for private use.  More
articles of provision are produced, and manufactured in the
parish, than it annually consumes.  A considerable quanti-
ty of oats is made into meal, and sold to traders, who
transport it by sea to every place of Scotland, where they
can find a market.  Butter and cheese are also in plenty
here; and of great importance.  Small farmers or subte-
nants, usually pay their rent by what of these they can
afford to sell, after supplying their own family.  Every
merchant in the parish buys these articles, and sends them
to market; generally at Leith and places adjoining to the
Frith.  Eggs too are purchased by them in considerable
quantities, and shipped for the London market.  But the
rearing and sale of black cattle is perhaps more advantage-
ous to the farmer, than any thing that has been mention-
ed.-Valued rent is L 5159: 6: 10 Scots: real rent, in-
cluding meal and money, about L. 3000 Sterling.

   Agriculture, etc.-In point of improvement, this parish
has undergone as sensible a change as most others.  Roads,
farms and houses, and the implements of husbandry, are so
much ameliorated, that those, who were acquainted with
it 30 years ago, declare they would scarcely know it to be
the same place, had they been so long absent.  When the


