
     Statistical Account

for the production of the aquatic plants, and not dry
enough for the purpose of tillage.  A plan hath been pro-
posed, and which the situation of the ground renders per-
fectly practicable, for conducting canals through the
ground, as is done in several places of England; and 
thereby, with the assistance of sluices, laying, at pleasure,
and for limited periods, the grounds under water, so as to
raise that abundant herbage formerly produced, and, at
the same time, delivering the country from the evil and the
inconvenience of stagnating waters.-It will, perhaps, be
thought strange, that I should class among the disadvan-
tages of this parish, the execution of the intended canal.
The farming interest are of opinion, they would be ma-
terially injured by it.  It is evident, that, as a mode of
conveyance to them so near Edinburgh, it is no object;
but it would deprive them of the privilege they, with
others in the vicinity, exclusively posses, of purchasing
the street and other dung about Edinburgh:  For by the
canal, it would find its way to places even very remote.
Several articles, too, as potatoes, etc. would be reduced
in the prices they now bear, by being brought from lands
much lower rented.  Besides this, the number of horses,
employed in carrying goods from the west couutry, would
thereby be diminished; which at present furnish a lucra-
tive market for some of their crops; as, hay, oats, and
especially pease and beans.
   There is a great want of running water in this parish,
except in one corner, where it is slightly visited by the
Water of Leith; and in a small part of its western divi-
sion, by the little rivulet called Gogar Burn.  There is no
appearance of any stream to animate the scene, or to be
made subservient to the purposes of manufactures and of
improvements.

     7
 

