
     Statistical Account

lustrate the cause of this annexation; but I beg leave to
offer a conjecture.  It had probably taken place during the
establishment of Popery, and the farm of Glaisterberry had
then been in the possession of a feudal baron, who, being
accustomed to command in the field, could not brook the
control of a rigid ecclesiastic.  The clergyman of the pa-
rish had probably summoned him to satisfy for some of-
fence; but the baron not deigning to submit to the strict-
ness of his discipline, found means to get himself and his
dependents put under the care of the neighbouring priest.
Hence, the stipend received by the minister of Banchory
from the farm of Glaisterberry, is said to be paid pro cura
animarum.  A change of jurisdiction, similar to this, has
been sometimes effected in matters civil as well as eccle-
siastical.  It is well known, that when the family of Cro-
marty set up a rivalship to the family of Seaforth, they had
influence enough with the Scotch Parliament to get a part
of the shire of Ross detached, and formed into a new county,
now called the shire of Cromarty.  To causes of a like na-
ture it is, perhaps, owing, that the natural boundary of
shires, commissariots, etc. has been altered, and that some
estates, lying on the north side of the river Dee, are now
in the shire of Mearns.
   The same spirit which I suppose to have actuated the ba-
ron of Glaisterberry, is still predominant in many.  Seve-
ral years ago, a clergyman here gave a very general and
gentle rebuke to a company, who came into church about
the middle of the sermon.  One of them was so much affront-
ed, that he never returned to his parish-church, and has put
himself under the care of another pastor.  If he possessed
influence, he would, no doubt, carry some of the stipend a-
way with him too, and get his secession justified by sanction.
   I fear, that a democratical and levelling spirit lurks in
the breast of too many.  Of those who have any religion,


