
     Statistical Account

tenant in Carfrae*.  It is about 25 years since he
came to his part of the country, from the eastern boun-
dary of Berwickshire.  At that period, our farmers were
total strangers to the culture of turnip, and very little ac-
quainted with the modern and new approved method of
meliorating land by lime and sown grasses, etc.  He in-
troduced the culture of turnip and clover; and by the
success which attended his exertions, the neighbouring far-
mers were soon convinced of the superiority of this new
method of managing land, to the old fashioned practice of
exhausting and ruining the soil, by a multiplicity of white
crops in succession.  The culture of turnip and clover is
now accordingly become very general, and in no place of
Berwickshire is that useful plant produced in greater quan-
tity, or of better quality, on the same extent of land.  Mr
Hogarth has also lately introduced the white faced long
woolled sheep, from Northumberland; and notwithstand-
ing the coldness of the climate, they promise, from the
trials already made, to answer extremely well. It must,
however, be observed, that they are not pastured on the
heath-covered hills, where, from experiments in similar
latitudes, they are not found to thrive.  In summer, they
are fed within enclosures, where the soil has been highly
improved; and in winter, are prepared by turnip, for the
market.  The introduction of the potatoes was still later
than that of turnips.  I am assured, it it not above 14
years since they were planted in the fields.  They are
found to suit the nature of our soil remarkably well; no
where are they produced of better quality, and in seasons,
when the corn is high priced, constitute fully the half of
the food of our cottagers.  There are about 30 farmers in
the parish.  The farms are in general small, excepting

<FOOTNOTE>

*This belongs to the Marquis of Tweedale.
        

