
     Statistical Account

has been discovered in this parish, but there is none
wrought at present.  The lime work is supplied with coal
from the parish of Cranstoun.

   Advantages.- The vicinity of Dalkeith market, the
neighbourhood of coal and lime, and the great raod lead-
ing to Edinburgh and to the S., are great advantages to
the farmers.  This parish has a peculiar advantage in be-
ing altogether freed from thirlage.  For many years past,
there has not been a corn mill in the parish.  The lime
work employs a considerable number of hands.  About 6
years ago, a society was formed in Path-head, for the sup-
port of distressed labourers.  The number at present is
upwards of 140:  The stock amounts to 160 L. Sterling.

   Antiquities.- There are the remains of a camp or en-
trenchment at Longfaugh, in this parish.  It stands upon
a rising ground, is of a circular form, and the entrench-
ments may, in many parts, be easily traced.  It is pro-
bable that some considerable battle had been fought in
this parish, from the great number of bones dug up when
Path-head was building.  In the lower ground, several
chevaux de frise have been found, which were used for
wounding horses feet.  They are in the form of rings, 6
inches in diameter, and armed all round with sharp pikes,
turned up in a circular manner.- The castle of Crichton is
a very ancient and magnificent building.  "This castle,"
says Pennant, "was once the habitation of the Chancellor
"Crichton, joint guardian with the Earl of Callander of
"James II., a powerful and spirited statesman in that
"turbulent age; and the adviser of the bold, but bloody
"deeds against the too potent Douglas.  During the life
"of Crichton, it was besieged, taken, and levelled with


