
     Statistical Account

   Natural History.-The natural history of this country is,
doubtless, well worth the investigating through the several
genera and species belonging to the animal and mineral king-
doms found in it.  The prodigious variety of fowl and fish
with which its coasts abound, is particularly worthy of no-
tice.  But the writer of this account is not able to arrange
them classically, nor does he pretend to know even the com-
mon names of many of them.
   Of fowl, besides the domestic species of hens, geese, ducks,
pigeons, and a few peacocks lately introduced, the most re-
markable are, muir-fowls, tarmagans, woodcocks, snipes, plo-
vers, eagles, hawks, crows, teals, curlieus, may-birds, bar-
nacles, wild-geese, solan-geese, cormorants, scarts; and of o-
ther sea fowl an indefinite number.  Of fish, the vast num-
ber of water lakes in this country abound with excellent black
trout.  Some good salmon likewise comes into the foot of
the rivulets from sea, in and before the spawning season.
Whales, and cearban, or sail-fish, hover along the coast in
the summer months; seals in vast abundance are to be seen
throughout the year.  The sea fish most beneficial to the peo-
ple are, the white-herring, dog-fish, blind-fish, cod, ling,
skait, mackerel, codlin, lythe, sythe, cuddy, sand-eel.  There
are some oysters and other shell-fish.  There are a number
of chalybeate springs; some copper and iron ore.  The stone
every where throughout the country is excellent for build-
ing.  It is of various kinds; the most common is a hard
blue whin of a beautiful gloss.  In many places there is the
best of granite, admitting of a parish as fine as any marble.
There is neither marble, nor limestone, nor freestone, as yet
discovered.  There can scarcely be a doubt, that many fossil
treasures are hid in the bowels of the losty mountains, to be
explored in future times.  All that is remarkable, with res-
pect to the vegetable kingdom of nature is, that no tree


