
     Statistical Account

   be made as fertile as any in the kingdom.  Those which
rise towards the hill on the S. E., and which run into New-
ton parish on the S. W., partake more of a clay foil, and
carry great crops of grain, especially wheat, when they are
under proper managemenet.  There are 3571 acres of land
in the parish, which, at the usual computation of 45 acres.
for a plough-gate, makes about 80 plough-gates.

   Rent and Proprietors.-The real rental of the parish is
about L. 6500; that of the towns and villages, including the
mills of Musselburgh, salt-works, etc. and the houses of the
heritors, as made out to fix an assessment for the poor, &
mounts to L. 500; total about L. 11,500.  The great pro-
prietors are 8 in number; viz. 1 ft, the Duke of Buccleugh,
who is patron of the parish, as possessing the lordship of In-
veresk, formerly belonging to Sir Robert Dickson of Car-
berry, who fold it to the Duchels of Monmouth about the
beginning of this century.  His Grace holds also the lands
of Smeaton and Castlesteads, and likewise the lordship of
Musselburgh in this parish.  His residence is at Dalkeith
House. 2.  The Earl of Wemyss, who has the lands of
Stonyhill, which formerly belonged to Sir William Sharp,
son of the Archibishop of St Andrew's and before that was
possessed by a family of the name of Dobie.  His Lordship
has likewise the lands of Monktonball, with the coal under
the whole lordship of Inveresk.  Non-refident. 3. Mrs
Fullarton of Carberry, which estate was purchased from Sir
Robert Dickson, Bart. who was descended from Dr David
Dickson, Propessor of Divinity in the College of Edinburgh
about the middle of laft century.  The family is now ex-
tinct. Resident. 4. Sir Achibald Hope, Bart. of Craig-
hall, proprietor of the barony of Pinkie, who has also ac-
quired the barony of Monkton, late in the possession of the
Falconers, a branch of the family of Halkerton, which fur


