
     of Cross, Burness, etc.

case in the year 1635 or 1636, when three or four thousand
people perished of famine in the Orkney islands.
   There was, however, very little grain imported into the
isle of North Ronaldshay in 1782 or 1783; and this has been
usually the case in that island, even in some of the worst
crops.  This may be accounted for in the following manner:
1st, They generally preserve some stock of grain or meal on
hand of the former crop.  2dly, They do not expend so
much grain as the same number of people in the isle of San-
day, because they do not, perhaps, labour so hard, either in
agriculture, or in making kelp, and consequently require less
food.  They have more sheep too in proportion to the peo-
ple, than are in the isle of Sanday, and consequently can eat
more mutton, and therefore require less bread.  3dly, Their
farms are small, and their harvest is quickly over, so that
they have a better chance to escape the storms and bad wea-
ther, by which the crop is often hurt in the last of harvest.
The grey fish called cuths, afforded some supply in 1782 and
1783; as also a cockle-sand in the isle of Sanday, where it
was usual to see from 50 to 80 people gathering cockles, in
the months of April, May, and June.

   Schools-Crosskirk charge.  The present incumbent has
endeavoured to have schools in the two parishes of his charge
which lie in the isle of Sanday.  About 16 years ago there
was one in the parish of Burness by subscription.  There was
another also by subscription in the parish of Crosskirk, about
4 or 5 years ago, but neither of these continued above a cou-
ple of years.  As few or none of the heritors are resident
here, the minister has never been able to get a parochial
school established in these parishes; and, as the Society
schools are not granted, where there is not first a parochial
school, one of these could not be obtained.  There has been

     VOL. VII. 3 R


