
     Statistical Account

The clans, like the subjects of independent states, living in
the close neighbourhood of each other, were animated by
constant jealousy and mutual hatred.  They neglected in-
dustry, because they held the fruits of their labour by a
precarious tenure.  They made little account of good mo-
rals, since it could not defend them from their lawless
neighbours, nor at all times secure the savour of their
chief.  But when the seudal system received an inrecover-
able blow, by quelling the rebellion, and by the jurisdiction
act, the people began to feel the force of the laws of their
country, in punishing the guilty and desending the in-
nocent.  They were excited to industry, by the prospect of
enjoying what they acquired.  They were taught morali-
ty, by the most obvious (though not the most important)
argument, that it afforded the best security to their per-
sons and property.  Another cause of this progress is the
influence of religion.  No doubt the ordinances of religion
were dispensed previous to the year 1745; but it is only
since that period the people have begun to respect them.
Before theat area, they considered themselves as a race of
warrios, and that religion was beneath their notice, or in-
consistent with military prowess; sentiments carefully in-
culcated by those who had occasion for their services.  Be-
sides, religion has been considerably aided by literature since
the area mentioned.  The lower class have been more gene-
rally taught to read.  In learning to read, the principles of
Christianity have been inculcated.  Much praise in this re-
spect is, in a special manner, due to the Society for propa-
gating Christian Knowledge.

   Antiquities and Language.-There are remains of two
Druidical temples, but they are much defaced.  In the moor
between Achnagairn and the ferry of Beuly, through which
the public road goes to the northern counties, are many


