
     of Glasgow.

gets them into service.-The Highland Society clothe a-
bout 60 boys annually, binding them apprentices to trades,
and attending to their education during their apprentice-
ship.
   Mr Wilson of London, who formerly had gone from this
city, impressed with the advantages of education to the
lower class of people, in 1778, mortified L. 3000 for the
purpose of educating and clothing boys.  This fund has
been augmented by sundry donations from other persons,
and now educates 48 boys, who, at the end of 4 years,
are also completely clothed, and bound apprentices
to trades.-Besides these, Crawford's School gives edu-
cation to 48 boys and girls, Tenant's to 96, and Bax-
ter's to 48, though without clothing.- There are also, of
late, some schools set apart for girls, such as Lennox's
school, which educates 48, and Peadie's, which educates
about 30, in reading, sewing and knitting.- A fund of a-
bove L. 7000, has likewise been lately left by Mr Ar-
chibald Millar, for educating and clothing girls in a gen-
teel way during a course of 5 years.- A neat school-house
is now building for that purpose, where it is proposed to
instruct them in every branch of education suited to their
station.
   To all these, are to be added 11 Sunday Schools, which
were begun in 1787, and have since been supported by
voluntary subscriptions, intended to preserve the educa-
tione formerly given, to increase knowledge, and to form
good habits, in which schools there are at present about
640 boys and girls.  So that there are thus about 1200
children, regularly educated in such branches as are proper
for them, without any expence to their parents.-At the
same time, the children of such as are able to afford them
education, are, in general, not neglect, as the presbytery
of Glasgow, having a few years ago ordered all the schools

     Vol. V. 3 X


