
     Statistical Account

ticable) is attended with great difficulties: and gradual re-
formation is perhaps here, as well as in most other depart-
ments of human labour, the preferable plan.
   From the observations already made, it is evident that we
stand much in need of improvement.  If the small farms
could be united, and many of the present possessors of them
converted into day-labourers, under tenants who could afford
them constant employment; and if a few tenants from the
Southern counties, of substance and knowledge, were encou-
raged to settle, as patterns to our native tenants; both clas-
ses would be benefited, and live infinitely better than these
do, at present.  Proprietors ought at least to have this in
view; if they wish to see their estates improved, or the ten-
ants on them comfortable.  It admits of proof, notwithstand-
ing the complaints which we frequently hear of the difficul-
ty of finding servants, and of the unjust preference which
is given to manufactures, that there are inhabitants sufficient
in the country for the purposes of its improvement, if a cer-
tain indolence and want of spring (which is one of the cha-
racteristic features in the lower ranks in this part of the
kingdom) could, by proper motives and encouragements, be
removed:  And this depends on landlords, and on the choice
which they make of tenants.
   Besides the 3000 bolls of grain already mentioned, about
300 black cattle are exported annually; and butter, cheese,
and eggs, to the amount of about 1000 L. Sterling.  The prices
of the last mentioned articles are from 6 d. to 8 d. for 20
ounces of butter; from 3 s. to 4 s. for the stone of cheese;
and from 2 d. to 6 d. for the dozen of eggs.

   Manufactures.-This branch of industry has made very
considerable progress in the parish within these few years.
Besides the spinning of flax to a very considerable amount for


