
     Statistical Account

their enemies with the most heroic ardour, yet they
gladly exchanged the fatigues of war for the pure and
healthful pleasures fo a country life.  When it was no
longer necessary to bear arms, they beat their swords
into plough-shares, and their spears into pruning hooks;
and solaced their minds, after the horrors of war, with
the delightful contemplation of that variety of natural
beauty which, from time to time, the field present to
the eye of the industrious and enlightened husbandman.
And as the greatest of their heroes dignified tis proses-
sion, by sharing in its toils, the sublimest of their poets
made it the subject of the most finished work, perhaps,
of which antiquity can boast, that he might entice his
countrymen to the study of agriculture, by adorning it
with all the graces and beauties of the most exquishire
poetry.  In Scotland, considerable attention has of late
been applied to the improvement of this important art-
Many excellent treatises have been written upon the
subject, by men of eminence in the literary world, who,
by devoting a portion of their time and talents to the
study of agriculture, are no doubt entitled to the grati-
tude of their countrymen.  Of these, none seem deserv-
ing of higher praise than the celebrated Author of Ele-
ments of Criticism, who, in his Gentleman Farmer,
hath brought together a collection of facts and observa-
tions, which, to the judicious farmer, are of inestimable
value, and will stand the test of ages.  And it must af-
ford every sincere lover of his country very high satis-
faction, to see that Board of Agriculture, which Lord
Kames so strongly recommends, actually established by
Government, with such a prospect of its answering the
important purposes for which it was instituted*.

<FOOTNOTE>

*Before, however, books on farming can operate as means of general


