
     Statistical Account

years of age; but the higher wages of labouring servants
having led the farmer to do more work with sewer hands,
the one circumstance may counterbalance the other, and
therefore may have kept the population of the parish al-
most stationary.

   Poor, etc.-Families who occasionally need relief from
the poor fund, have been gradually diminishing, and
beggars have become exceedingly less numerous; at present
we have not one belonging to the parish; but in 1741 the
kirk-session gave 32 of them a badge and a licence to beg.
Later than that period the heritors were obliged to asses
themselves for supporting the poor; now our weekly col-
lection are more than adequate for the purpose.  At the
interval of every 20 years there was, at an average, col-
lected each Sunday,-

<TABLE>

   A.D     s.   d.

   
   1710    0    4  
   1730    1    3
   1750    2    7
   1770    5    3
   1790    7    0

</TABLE>

   Were we therefore to judge of the wealth of the parish
by the standard, we would conclude, that it had increased
in the proportion of 1 to 21 : This estimate would, how-
ever, be too high; because as there was formerly a much
greater number of parochial beggars, those who had to
give more charity in private, might give less in public:
Yet allowing for this, and comparing what was given at
different periods for the relief of families, who may be
supposed to have been in similar circumstances, the wealth
of the parish must be 8 or 10 times greater than it was in
the beginning of the present century.  Our former poverty,
and indeed the poverty of the country in general, is strong-


