
     Statistical Account

"entire, as they then were, after the Union, and notwith-
"standing thereof."  Upon there acts the borough of Kirk-
wall claimed right to exact, from the village of Stromness.
a proportionable share of the cess and burdens, which, by
the tax roll that borough was liable to pay; and that,
upon payment of such proportion, the borough of Kirkwall
would admit the inhabitants of the village of Stromness to
a communication of trade, which was accordingly complied
with, and was continued from 1719 to 25th May 1743,
when the inhabitants of the village of Stromness refused to
pay the cess or stent to the borough of Kirkwall, alleging,
that the sum laid on them was more than their proportion,
and more than their trade could bear; and, besides, that it
was partially laid on the several traders of this village, and
not in due proportion to the extent of their trade.  The
magistrates of Kirkwall stated to the Honourable the Con-
vention of Royal Boroughs, that, by the tax-roll, they were

<TABLE>

liable in payment of cess and stent, (Scots)   L. 637  0  0
That missive dues, fitting of eques, and collectors
  salaries, amounted to                           263  0  0
                                                  ---------
                                               L. 950  0  0

That they only exacted from the village of Stromness one
  third part of this; and that in time past all they had re-
  ceived was,
From the village of Stromness,                 L. 204  0  0
From the traders in other parts,                  154  0  0
                                                  ---------
                                               L. 358  0  0

</TABLE>

So that there still remained a burden on the borough of
Kirkwall of L. 592 Scots.
   The inhabitants of the village of Stromness stated, on
the other side, to the Convention in 1751, that the trade


