
     Statistical Account

and wrights, stationed in different places for the accommo-
dation of the neighbourhood.

   Waters.-There are, on the north-east corner of the parish,
three mineral springs close by each other, all of different
qualities; one emetic, another cathartic; and the third is
used for washing cutaneous eruptions on the body.  But the
respective nature of these waters has not as yet been properly
analysed.-The Loch of Monteith is the most remarkable
sheet of water, being nearly in the center of the parish, ad-
joining the kirk and manse.  It is adorned with two small
islands and a peninsula.  It is about five miles round.  Loch
Vennochar, on the north, is the boundary betwixt this parish
and Callander.  There are some other smaller lochs, one of
which forms a beautiful round bason, about half a mile in
circumference, on the top of our highest ridge of moun-
tains.-The Loch of Monteith abounds with perch, pike,
and eel, and affords some large trout.  The Forth, till of
late, afforded some sport for salmon on the border of this
parish.  But now they seem to be in a good measure banished
from this neighbourhood, by conveying down the river such
quantities of moss, for the purpose of acquiring the fine clay
soil which is below it.

   Population.-The inhabitants of the parish in 1755, a-
mounted to 1865.  It is believed, that, for some time, they
have been on the decrease, owing partly to the junction of
farms, and chiefly to the emigration of cottagers and their
families to great towns, and to the cotton manufactures.

   Farms and Valuation.-A considerable proportion of the
parish is now inclosed.  The farms, in general, are not large.
The rents are various, from 100 L. to 10 L. Sterling.-There


