
     Statistical Account

   Surface and Soil.-The hills are for the most part steep,
rocky on the sides, and covered with heath.  There is no-
thing in the parish deserving the name of meadow ground,
even the valleys being covered with heath, the grounds un-
der tillage excepted, and a few spots of inconsiderable ex-
tent, producing bushes, spratt and bent, intermixed with
other coarse grass.  The soil under culture, is thin and
light, generally on a bottom of gravel, and in many places
full of stones.  The extent of the arable land is very in-
considerable, when compared with that of the whole parish,
there being only a few small stripes under tillage, along
the different branches of the river; and it does not appear
practicable much to increase the quantity.

   Productions.-The amount of grain produced, is very
inconsiderable, and, at an average, does not support the in-
habitants.  This, in a great measure, is occasioned by an
unfavourable climate.  The ground being locked up with
frost, or covered with snow, during the winter and great
part of the spring season, it is commonly the 1st or 2d of
April, before the tillage for the ensuing crop commences, a 
few farms in the east end of the parish excepted.  The
seed time being late, and generally very cold, the crop is
oftentimes checked in the following September, by frost and
unseasonable weather, before it has had time to come to
maturity.  The bear, if it escapes the September frost, is
for the most part well filled; but the corn is often very
unproductive, it being frequently as late as the middle of
November before the harvest is concluded.  In 1789, a 
great part of the grain remained in the fields, till the second
week of December.  Potatoes and turnips have lately been
introduced, and if the climate would permit, these useful
roots would thrive well.


