
     of Lethendy.

of Session, whereby they had exceeded that sums was af-
firmed.
   The glebe consists of about 6 acres of rich arable land.
The living of the established clergyman is 6 L. bolls and 9
pecks of victual; 17 L. Sterling; 3 L. capons, 43 poultry
and the tenth of lint, lamb, and wool.

   Schoolmaster.-The provision for a schoolmaster in this
parish is 40 L. Scotch, with the school fees, and 8 L. Scotch
for acting as session-clerk.  Even this paltry sum, it would
seem, is reluctantly bestowed.  The last schoolmaster died
10 years ago; the school-house had been in ruins long be-
fore; and the heritors have never yet found it convenient to
provide us either with one, or with the other; an irrepa-
rable loss to the rising generation.  Some steps, however,
will soon be taken, for having this opprobrious grievance
effectually removed.

   Poor.-There are no poor's rates established in this parish.
The weekly collections in the church, with the interest of a
small sum of money, have hitherto been sufficient for the
support of the poor.  There are, at present, 3 only upon the
roll, aged, infirm people; and even these require but a small
trifle, in addition to the fruits of their own industry.  The
average weekly collection is from 2 s. to 2 s. 6 d. Sterling.

   Prices of Labour and Provision.-The wages of a man-ser-
vant are from 10 L. to 12 L. Sterling a year; of a woman-ser-
rant, from 4 L. to 5 L. with victuals.  Day-labourers receive
from 15 d. to 18 d. a day in summer, and about 1 s. in win-
ter, without victuals.  Oat-meal is here the principal food
of the people, and generally sells at 1 s. the peck.  Butter


