
                          LILLIESLEAF.                          33

one or the other of the mines.  Peat is nearly exhausted, and con-
fined in use to some feuars and a few tenants.  Brushwood is
dear as fuel; and, though very expensive, coal is by far the cheaper
and more comfortable.  It was remarked in the former Statistical
Account of this parish, that "in the article  of firing, the inhabit-
ants must be at a greater expense than any parish of the south of
Scotland."
            MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
  The more striking variations betwixt the present state of the
parish and that which existed at the time of the last Statistical
Account in 1793, are, lst, That the whole roads are now good and
well made. 2d, That a large extent of land has been planted with.
forest trees for utility and ornament.  About forty years ago there
were not 100 acres planted, now there are about 600; the late Sir
John Riddell, Bart. having planted from 300 to 400 acres about
thirty or forty years ago. 3d, That the modern system of husbandry
has now been fully introduced,--all the dry land, when in fallow,
being sown down with turnip in drills, well-dunged and properly
cleaned,--the clean fallow properly wrought and kept free of weeds,
and dung laid thereon, and a break regularly laid down with grass
seeds.  Farm-steadings have also mostly all been rebuilt with
stone and lime, covered with slate, and made perfectly convenient
for the farm; and thrashing-macbines have been introduced upon
almost every farm.
  All classes of the people in this parish can now find employment
if they are at all willing to work.

  October 1834.

  ROXBURGH.                      C


