
     of Dowally.

that a reduction of their number would permit a greater
quantity of rude produce to go to market, and by conse-
quence a higher rent to be paid.  But there is a mistake in
this thought.  The present rent is paid, not from the sale of
rude produce, but from the sale of a part of that produce,
manufactured by household labour.  If the size of the farms
was enlarged, there is no doubt that from the consequent
depopulation, an increased quantity of rude produced would
be sent to market, but then the quantity of manufacturing
household labour would, from the same cause, be diminish-
ed.  Now, it is apprehended, that the gain from the former
circumstance would not do more (if it did so much) than
compensate the loss sustained by the latter.  For the manu-
facturing labour, it will be found, adds so great an increase
of value to the rude produce, as will not only support the
expence of the greater number of individuals who exert it,
but also the want of the price of that increased quantity of
produce which would be raised by their removal.  In the pre-
sent state of things, therefore, no material rise of rent could
be expected by the proprietor, from the enlargement of the
size of farms in this parish.
   As to the Highlands in general, for it does not respect
Dowally, the public, as well as the proprietors, would de-
rive signal advantage, not so much from the enlargement
of old farms, as from the formation of new ones.  Immense
tracts of ground in some districts, and small patches in
others, may be found, which never felt the impression of
either the spade or the plough.  Every where let these be
cultivated.  Perhaps the plan which would secure this cul-
tivation of these waste grounds most speedily and universal-
ly, would be for proprietors to offer portions of them, of a
proper extent, in lease, free of rent for some years, and af-

     VOL. XX. 3 P


