
826 				AYRSHIRE.

but our limits forbid us to enter into any detail of its splendid
scenes, either on the tented field, or in the halls of the castle
where so many of the fair and brave of "high degree" were as-
sembled to hold high festival. The courtesy and liberality of the
noble Lord of the tournament were universally felt and acknow-
ledged.
	Parochial Registers.--The earliest minute of session is dated
12th March 1656, since which time, with the exception of a few
intervals they appear to have been regularly recorded. The re-
cord of baptisms begins 27th April 1669, and that of proclama-
tions, 14th July 1676, and both are continued, with few interrup-
tions, to the present day. In recent times, the register of births
is far from being complete, and there is none of deaths or burials.
	Modern Buildinqs, &c.--The chief of these is Eglinton Castle,
a large and handsome house, suitable for the residence of the mu-
nificent and hospitable family to whom it belongs. It was built in
the end of last century by Hugh, twelfth Earl of Eglinton. The
park in which it stands is spacious and well-wooded, and stocked
with deer. The gardens are extensive and beautiful. There is an
elegant mansion at Mountgreenan, built about thirty years ago by
Robert Glasgow, Esq. Monkcastle and Ashgrove are also fur-
nished with suitable residences. There are four mills for grinding
corn, and three saw-mills in the parish.

<TABLE=Population>
			     III.--POPULATION.

               The population in 1755 amounted to 2541
				 1792,	          2360
				 1801,	          2700
				 1811,	          3291
				 1821,            8696
				 1831,	          3778
				 1841,	          5251
	     In the town, 1841, families,	   630
				males,	          1447
				females,	  1524
		In the country, families,	   387
				males,	          1210
				females,	  1070
		  Total number of families,	      1017
	The average number in each family is          5.15

	Of the rural population, about 800 reside in collier villages and
hamlets.
	The chief causes of the great increase since 1831, are the for-
mation of the Glasgow, Ayr, and Kilmarnock Railway, and the ex-
tension of the collieries in the immediate neighbourhood of Kil-
winning, and at Fergushill, where a village containing upwards of


