
     of Mains.

which destroy much of the grain.  There is also a good
number of large oak and ash trees, and some thriving
plantations in the parish.  The soil in the haughs is a deep
loam, and produces excellent crops.  The rest of the pa-
rish, with some little exception, is a pretty deep mould
upon till, and is very fertile.  The air is dry and salubri-
ous, there being no stagnated water in the parish.  Hence
there are no epidemical or topical diseases, and the people
in general enjoy very good health; only they are now and
then visited comsumptions and severs.

   Population.-From the register of baptisms, this parish
appears to have been much more populous 80 years ago
than at present.  At that period, the number of souls was
above 1200.  In the year 1768, it contained only 660.  This
decreased was occasioned by ejecting the subtenants, and en-
larging the farms; and from the people removing into the
neighbouring town of Dundee, where employment was more
easily procured.  It is now increasing very rapidly, from
the encouragement given to labourers, and from the ama-
zing number of hands employed in bleaching, and other ma-
nufactures carried on upon the water of Dighty.  Hence, in
the year 1792, the number of souls was found to be 878,
which is considerably greater than it was 40 years ago.


