
     of Forgandenny.

built upon a hill, which on the one side is washed by the
May, and on the other by a rivulet, called the Chapel water,
both of which streams meet to the east of this hill, in a
deep and sufficiently pleasant valley.  This village contains
about 22 dwelling-houses, besides a mill, an Antiburgher
meeting-house, and a school.  The village of Forgan is situ-
ated between the houses of Freeland and Rossie, about half a
mile up from the Earn.  It consists of about 30 houses, most
of which are inhabited by handicraftsmen and labourers.  It
is divided into two parts, by a small brook, which runs
through it.

   Church and School.-The church has a very decent appear-
ance, but what gives it a venerable air, is its being surround-
ed with a number of the finest trees which this country pro-
duces.  The school-house and dwelling-house of the school-
master, form together a very neat small building.  In this
school there are educated annually about 50 boys and girls,
of which about 10 or a dozen are the children of poor peo-
ple, the whole expence of whole education is defrayed by
the kirk-session.  The whole emoluments of the school a-
mount to L. 27 or L. 30 Sterling.

   Roads and Bridges.-The public roads, in the low part of
the parish, and even in the hills in some places, as well as
the bridges, are exceedingly good.  They were at first made,
and are still kept in repair, by the statute labour, which is
partly exacted in kind, and partly commuted.  The private
roads, leading to the gentlemen's houses, do honour to the
proprietors.  All of them in point of goodness are equal,
and some of them superior to the public roads.

   Enclosures.-The greater part of the low part of the pa-


